AGED VENISON AND WILD LETTUCE WITH SEEDED BREAD

Isaac is a Lummi Islander who used to be a dishwasher at the restaurant. He's also a bowhunter, and one morning, he brought in a still-warm deer heart wrapped in pages torn from a Playboy magazine. He handed it to me, pointing out the nick in the heart from the arrow, showing off what a good shot he was.

We sliced it thin, sprinkled a little salt over the top, and ate it right there in the kitchen as a display of manliness and to promote facial-hair growth.

It is amazing how different wild animals taste. They run and fight and fuck and starve. They eat leaves and twigs and berries. You can taste it all in their flavor and texture, something so glaring that it's hard to consider them the same species as their domesticated counterparts.

For the tartare in this recipe, it's important to use a tough muscle from wild venison that's been aged for a long time. I like to use a shoulder hung for at least six weeks. The meat must be thoroughly cleaned of connective tissue (the spot where any perceived toughness lies) before being diced. It should be served ice cold with hot slices of toasted rye bread and some just-picked herbs.

The seasonings for this dish come from different times of the year, but they work extremely well together, and they are good to keep in the cupboard for other meals. In the spring, we ferment overwintered garlic shoots for about a month, then squeeze out the juice and add a bit of that to the tartare. In the late summer, we collect juniper berries while they are still green, then crush and infuse them with a strong-flavored vinegar, adding that to the garlic juice.

The rye bread in this dish is delicious. It's a recipe that I learned in Denmark-a traditional seeded rye done right. Make sure that you stir the rye berries at least once a day so that they all soften. I once broke a tooth on bread that was made too quickly! For the tartare, the bread slices should be toasted but still soft in the middle and just crisp around the edges.

SERVES 4

FOR THE JUNIPER VINEGAR

21/2 tablespoons/16 g fresh green juniper berries

1 cup/235 g high-quality cider vinegar

FOR THE CURED EGG YOLKS

2 cups/400 g kosher salt

1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar

1/2 cup packed/100 g brown sugar

2 fresh egg yolks from Riley Starks

FOR THE CURED VENISON

(This is a percentage-by-weight curing process for a relatively small yield, so we're only furnishing gram measures.)

3.75 g granulated sugar

7.5 g sea salt

2 g mature pine needles

2 g parsley stems

1 fresh bay leaf

2.5 g fresh green juniper berries, crushed

2.5 g whole black peppercorns, crushed

1 wild venison heart (about 250 g)

FOR THE VENISON TARTARE

9 ounces/225 g wild venison shoulder meat, aged 6 to 7 weeks

Fermented green garlic brine (page 240)

8 thin slices of five-day rye bread (page 244)

3 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon/50 g clarified high-quality unsalted butter

1 cup/25 g miner's lettuce leaves

JUNIPER VINEGAR

Crush the juniper berries with a mortar and pestle. Combine the crushed berries and cider vinegar in a nonreactive container. Allow them to marry for a month, then use a fine-mesh sieve to strain out the solids.

CURED EGG YOLKS

Mix together the salt and the white and brown sugars and pour three-quarters of the mixture into a container with a bottom that's about 4 × 2 inches (10 × 5 cm). Create a divot for each egg yolk.

Place 1 yolk in each divot, cover them with the remaining salt and sugar mixture, and let them cure for 24 hours in the refrigerator; they'll be slightly more firm than a dried apricot when done. Rinse the yolks under cold water and dry under a fan for 15 minutes, which should leave the exterior tacky.

Start the smoker. Cold smoke the yolks on a sheet pan for 3 hours, then store them at room temperature.

CURED VENISON

Create a dry rub by combining the sugar, salt, pine needles, parsley stems, bay leaf, juniper berries, and black peppercorns. Cut the heart meat into 4 sections and coat them with the rub. Place the pieces in a covered container and allow the meat to cure in the refrigerator. After 3 days, scrape the rub from the meat with the back of a knife, then cold smoke it over alderwood for about 4 days, until it is fairly dry and hardened. Dry the meat overnight in a dehydrator set on low, removing it as soon as the texture is firm enough to create curls when grated with a Microplane.

VENISON TARTARE

Trim the aged venison shoulder, cutting along muscle divisions, removing any bone, silverskin, veins, or dark tissue. Cut the meat into 1/4-inch/.5 cm cubes and keep them cold in the refrigerator until serving.

TO SERVE

Season the tartare with about a tablespoon of the juniper vinegar and a tablespoon of the fermented green garlic brine. Using a Microplane, grate about a tablespoon of the cured, dried meat onto the tartare, then stir it in. Toast both sides of the rye bread slices in a skillet with the clarified butter. Serve the tartare in a small, chilled bowl next to small plates with the toasted bread and the miner's lettuce. Grate about a quarter of a cured egg yolk onto each toast.

SHIITAKE MUSHROOMS ROASTED OVER AN OPEN FLAME

When I first arrived on Lummi, it took some time to find my voice as a chef. Not because I felt inexperienced or unready to cook the food I knew I wanted to cook, but because the island was overwhelming and inspiring in an absolutely electric way. It takes a while to connect with your natural surroundings, follow their rhythms, and know what to serve when. Working at The Willows was my first opportunity to respond to the most spectacular and diverse ingredients I had ever seen.

These mushrooms taste amazing when grilled, and in a dish this simple, every element is important. You need very high-quality mushrooms, good finishing salt, and a hot wood fire.

The best shiitakes are grown outdoors. Exposure to sunlight and cooling at night combine to blister the mushroom cap and give it a more sturdy texture. Next in importance is freshness, and though they're not wild, mushrooms grown like this still have a season, and it is important to pick them at their peak. Their flavor diminishes very quickly after harvesting, so they should be picked and cooked on the same day. When grilled, the cap needs a near-black char, but the stem should be barely cooked through.

This recipe was something of a turning point in my own cooking, an embodiment of my style and the kind of food that I like to eat. It's simple but exquisite, a combination I strive for in all of our dishes.

SERVES 4

Grapeseed oil

1 pound/500 g fresh shiitake trimmings

21/2 ounces/75 g dried shiitake mushrooms

Flake salt

8 just-picked medium shiitake mushrooms (about 140 g)

SHIITAKE STOCK

Pour a thin coat of grapeseed oil into a medium saucepan and set it over medium-high heat. When the oil begins to smoke, sauté the shiitake trimmings until lightly browned, about 1 minute.

Pour 1 quart/1 L of water into the saucepan. Add the dried shiitakes, bring to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 1 hour. Strain out and discard the solids. Season very gently, if at all, with salt; the stock should have a clean but not overpowering taste.

GRILLED SHIITAKES

In a medium mixing bowl, coat the whole shiitakes with a tablespoon/15 g of grapeseed oil and season with salt. Place the mushrooms in a sous vide bag with 2 tablespoons of shiitake stock (the rest of the stock can be frozen for another use) and vacuum seal on high. Place the bag in the refrigerator and allow the mushrooms to marinate for an hour.

Prepare a fire for direct grilling. Remove the mushrooms from the bag and grill, cap down, over direct heat, until they begin to sweat and develop pronounced grill marks, about 4 minutes. Flip and grill the underside until the stem is softened and grill marks appear, about 11/2 minutes.

TO SERVE

Dust each mushroom with flake salt and serve immediately.

SCRAPED ALBACORE WITH A BROTH MADE FROM SMOKED BONES

I was woken one morning not too long ago by the loud sound of someone breathing into a microphone, followed by voices and murmurs that bounced up from the water and echoed through our house. It took a minute to come out of a dream and realize that I was hearing the Lummi tribe divers who use microphones to communicate with their boats while diving for sea cucumbers around the island.

The sea around Lummi Island is a cold mix of inland waters, water from the Pacific, and an abundance of water from mountain river estuaries. It creates a great biological diversity and makes it a hot spot for commercial fishing.

After coming to the island and working with top-notch fishermen, I realized what a large disconnect there is between chefs and commercial fishermen. Just-caught fish can be subjected to some amazingly poor treatment, being kicked around on boats and piled high into giant containers, but when you pay by the pound, it can be hard to find the boat that will catch fewer fish in order to give you better quality.

Once we have a just-caught fish, we wait. Fish this fresh is unusable for the first day or two after it is caught. Its body is stiff with rigor mortis, the pin bones impossible to remove. A good-sized tuna, like the one we use for this dish, will benefit from at least two days, if not four or five, of resting on ice to allow the flesh to relax.

SERVES 4

FOR THE TUNA STOCK

1 albacore tuna spine, any meat left from trimming scraped off

3 smoked and dried smelt (about 18 g) (page 236)

Grapeseed oil

10 dried shiitake mushrooms (about 15 g)

2 cups/500 g mussel stock (page 246)

Salt

FOR THE TARTARE

2 ounces/60 g albacore tuna loin

2 ounces/60 g albacore tuna belly

1 tablespoon/10 g grapeseed oil

FOR SERVING

1-inch/2.5 cm piece fresh horseradish root (about 35 g), peeled

2 teaspoons/3 g fresh parsley seeds

4 teaspoons/13 g grapeseed oil

TUNA STOCK

Start your smoker and when it's ready, cold smoke the tuna spine on a half-sheet pan for 1 hour.

Soak the dried smelt in a bowl of cold water for 10 minutes, then drain the water and give the smelt a good rinse under the tap.

Once the tuna spine has finished smoking, heat a large skillet with a film of grapeseed oil over medium-high heat. Add the spine and brown it until golden and cooked through, about 2 minutes per side. Place the bones in a medium saucepan with the smelt and dried shiitakes and cover with the mussel stock and 2 cups/475 g water. Bring to a boil over medium heat, then reduce the heat and simmer, covered, until the stock has pleasant fish and smoke flavors, about 25 minutes.

Strain the stock into a 2-quart/2 L container, cool it over an ice bath, then season it with salt. Set aside 1/2 cup/125 g and freeze the rest for another use.

TUNA TARTARE

Wash the tuna loin and belly in a 10 percent salt solution (1 quart/1 L water with 100 g salt) to remove any scales or blood.

Use a scallop shell to scrape each cut of raw fish into bite-sized or smaller pieces, discarding any bits of connective tissue, then mix the two cuts together and stir in 1 tablespoon grapeseed oil.

TO SERVE

Place each portion of tuna in a small, chilled serving bowl. Grate about 1 teaspoon of horseradish over the tuna with a Microplane and sprinkle 1/2 teaspoon of fresh parsley seeds over the top. Drizzle with about 11/2 tablespoons of tuna stock and 1 teaspoon of grapeseed oil.

I can't remember the first time I met Jeremy Brown, which is hard to believe because he is a merry, redheaded Cornishman, but I will never forget the first time I saw his fish. Jeremy has been fishing for The Willows for the last twelve years, long before I got here. He leaves Bellingham for about three days at a time on his small boat to catch whatever's biting, bringing a cooler or two of his catch to the kitchen when he's through. He handles each one gently, even going to the effort of tying a small string through the mouth of each fish he catches to carry them without strain. He also pressure bleeds the fish with a syringe and a small saltwater pump to flush out their circulatory systems. Removing as much blood as quickly as possible ensures the best flavor and texture from the flesh. Once that's done, the fish are weighed and packed in a cooler with crushed ice, with more ice in their belly cavities.

Through no fault of their own, chefs often don't realize that commercial fishing is a highly regulated business, not an open-season, all-you-can-catch buffet. There are limited openings strung out through different fishing zones over the course of a season (and sometimes those are only a few hours a year). In 2014, there were only two days when halibut could be fished in the Puget Sound, and each boat was allowed only a limited amount.

The openings were spread out by a few weeks, but if you were to call a less-than-scrupulous fish supplier for the six weeks after the first opening, they would tell you about their great, just-caught local halibut.

We never know what Jeremy is going to bring in: some salmon, a few types of cod, some rockfish, a tuna, some mackerel, skate, or halibut. He'll text from his boat, sometimes even sending me a picture of his catch, and let me know what he's got. Each week, we take whatever he brings and figure out what to cook. Sometimes, it's all one type of fish, and other weeks, there might not be enough of any single type for the whole restaurant, and we'll use different fish at different tables.

Beyond this, getting to know our fishermen has given us a huge variety in the kinds of fish we can get. There are so many different fish that are caught, bought, and sold commercially, yet very few types trickle down to make it onto restaurant menus. Many great-tasting fish are seemingly known only to fishermen. When I told Jeremy that I was curious about the other types of fish he sees, he started to bring in all types of small fish, snapper-type fish, flounder, and even eel. One time he caught a giant angelfish that had apparently swum over all the way from Hawaii to Lummi Island.

A PORRIDGE OF LOVAGE STEMS

I had never cooked with lovage before moving to Denmark, but it's an amazing herb that grows rampant on Lummi. Here, we started by using the plant for several dishes, making infusions from the leaves and turning the seeds into capers, but we always had a large bin of lovage stems that ended up in the compost heap.

In the spring, lovage is tender and subtle, an almost entirely different plant than it is later in the year. This dish is best prepared before the plant bolts and flowers, when the stems are crisp, juicy, and pleasant to eat raw. The preparation resembles a risotto, with the lovage stems in place of rice, gradually softened while cooking in a smoky smelt stock. The consistency should be similar to risotto, too, with a creaminess achieved by mixing in a thick purée of blanched spinach and adding a knob of butter at the end. This porridge can easily be a stand-alone dish, but I tend to serve it alongside some caramelized shellfish, such as razor clams or small squid.

The smelt stock used in this porridge is a good one, something of a mother sauce here at The Willows. We clean, salt, smoke, and dry the small fish before infusing them into a broth with dried mushrooms.

SERVES 6 TO 8

3 scallions

1/3 cup/80 g smelt stock (page 247)

1 cup/90 g lovage stems, cut into 1/4-inch/.5 cm lengths

1 cup/12 g lovage leaves, torn into pieces smaller than 1 inch/2.5 cm

1/2 cup/45 g rainbow chard stems, cut into 1/4-inch/.5 cm cubes

1/2 cup/50 g rainbow chard leaves, torn into thumb-sized pieces

Salt

1 tablespoon/15 g high-quality unsalted butter

1 tablespoon/15 g spinach purée (page 247)

2 tablespoons/12 g chopped fermented green garlic (page 240)

Reduced white wine (page 251)

Verjus

Lovage oil (page 242)

Prepare a grill for direct grilling. Char the scallions over direct heat on the grill until well blackened, then finely chop them.

Bring the smelt stock to a boil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the lovage stems and lovage leaves, along with the chard stems and chard leaves. Cook the mixture, stirring frequently, until only about a tablespoon of the liquid remains and the leaves are a nice, glowing green, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from the heat, season with salt, and stir in the butter. Return to the heat and stir in the spinach purée until a nice, creamy sheen forms. Off the heat, stir in the scallions and fermented green garlic and season with reduced wine, verjus, and salt.

TO SERVE

Put a spoonful of porridge in the center of a dish and drizzle it with lovage oil.

FERMENTED TURNIPS WITH VERY AGED DUCK

Around the time that the reefnet gears and nets are brought in, the fish have gone north and the birds, eschewing a more traditional straight line, zigzag their way south through the San Juans. At the Inn, we start to serve a heartier menu that hopefully makes the sideways rain feel warmer.

We cook with birds from Koraley Orritt at Shepherd's Hill Farm on nearby Whidbey Island. She has raised several types of ducks and geese for us, often starting the baby chicks in her living room and eventually moving them out to her pasture. My current favorite is the small Khaki Campbell variety.

I like to push duck to the limits of dry aging, bringing it to that step just before it starts to go off. Strange as it sounds, I find this yields the most flavorful and best-textured meat. The cooking process removes any unpleasant off flavors the aged meat might have and produces a pure and distinct duck flavor that pairs beautifully with fruits and berries or fermented flavors. In this case, funk likes funk.

This past spring, we bought a flock of sixty live ducks, slaughtered them, and hung them in our walk-in cooler to age. After hanging the ducks for a week with their guts, we eviscerated them and basted them with a little rendered duck fat and continued to let them hang to further develop flavor and texture. Prior to cooking, we brine just the flesh overnight to rehydrate the meat a touch and tenderize the flesh while keeping the skin dry.

SERVES 4

FOR THE DUCK

1 whole, plucked Khaki Campbell duck (about 2.2 kg)

Grapeseed oil

Salt

2 tablespoons/28 g high-quality unsalted butter, roughly cut into 1/2-inch/1 cm cubes

FOR THE FERMENTED TURNIPS

8 Hakurei turnips (about 130 g)

1 generous tablespoon/20 g salt

FOR THE TURNIP LEAF SAUCE

1 cup/235 g light vegetable stock (page 250

1 bunch Hakurei turnip leafy tops (about 100 g)

1/2 teaspoon/2.5 g cold, high-quality unsalted butter

11/2 teaspoons/7 g spinach purée (page 247)

Flake salt

High-quality cider vinegar

1/2 teaspoon/2 g grapeseed oil

FOR THE BUTTER-GLAZED TURNIP LEAVES

1/2 cup/100 g cold, high-quality unsalted butter

4 Hakurei turnip leaves, about 8 to 10 inches/20 to 25 cm long

AGING THE DUCK

Trim any excess fat from around the neck and abdominal cavity of the duck. Tie the ends of the legs together tightly and hang the duck from its legs in a well-ventilated place where the temperature will consistently stay above freezing and below 45°F/7°C. Allow the duck to age, using a damp towel to wipe off any white mold as it appears. The duck will be ready in about 4 weeks, when the skin takes on an amber-pink tone and flesh touched with a finger takes a few seconds to return to its shape. Break down the duck, reserving all but the breasts for another use. Trim the fat around the breasts, leaving a neat, consistent 1/2-inch/1 cm of overhang around them. Soak the flesh side of the duck breast in a 7 percent salt brine for 1 hour. Chill until serving.

FERMENTED TURNIPS

Clean the turnips, leaving them with about 1/2 inch/1 cm of stem and scraping off any stem fibers. Cut each turnip into 6 wedges. Place all of the wedges into a nonreactive container and cover with the salt mixed with 500 ml water (a 4 percent salt solution). Cover the turnips and liquid with parchment paper cut to fit the inside of the container and use a weight like a small plate on top of the paper to keep the turnips from coming in contact with the air. Cover the top of the container with cheesecloth and store in a space that stays between 55 and 75°F/13 and 24°C-the cooler end of that range being ideal. Ferment for 1 to 3 weeks. When done, the turnips will still have plenty of crunch and a nice, acidic tang. Cover and refrigerate, keeping the weight in place.

TURNIP LEAF SAUCE

In a medium saucepan, bring the vegetable stock to a simmer over high heat. Put the turnip leaves into the blender, pour in the hot stock, and blend on high until it becomes a smooth liquid. Pour the sauce directly into a loaf pan set over ice to cool. Strain the cooled sauce through a fine-mesh sieve or a Superbag.

DUCK BREASTS

Bring the breasts to room temperature. Preheat a large skillet over medium heat, coat the pan with a thin film of grapeseed oil, and sprinkle a pinch of salt onto the oil. Set the breasts in the skillet, skin-side down. Sprinkle a pinch of salt onto the flesh, followed by a thin coat of grapeseed oil (about 1/2 teaspoon per breast). Cook for about 7 minutes, or until much of the fat has rendered and the skin is crisp and has taken on a deep golden color. Drain out and discard any rendered fat that begins to pool as you cook.

Once the skin is crisp, wipe out the pan and place it over medium-low heat. Working quickly, add the butter cubes to the skillet, immediately followed by the duck breasts, flesh-side down, side by side. (If there are any signs of browning of the butter or the breasts, reduce the heat.)

After about 90 seconds, lean the breasts against the sides of the pan to cook the sides and ends of the flesh, cooking all visible parts that appear raw.

Remove the breasts from the heat and place them on a wire rack, skin-side down, and allow them to rest for at least 5 minutes but not more than 10. To re-crisp the skin before serving, place a skillet over medium-high heat, add a thin film of grapeseed oil, and when that's hot, add the breasts, skin-side down. Remove after 30 seconds.

Immediately trim any tough edges from the flesh and, cutting on the bias, trim 1/2 inch/1 cm from either end. Working at the same angle, cut the breast into 4 portions.

BUTTER-GLAZED TURNIP LEAVES

Strain the brine from the fermented turnips into a medium saucepan and bring to a simmer over medium-high heat. Remove the pan from the heat and immediately add the 1/2 cup/100 g of butter. Once the butter is melted, blend the liquid with an immersion blender, stopping once an off-white emulsion with the consistency of heavy cream has formed. Bring the glaze to a gentle simmer and add the whole turnip leaves just long enough to wilt them, about 30 seconds. Pull the leaves out and set them in a strainer.

TO SERVE

Heat the fermented turnips in the butter glaze over low heat until just warmed through.

Warm the turnip leaf sauce in a small saucepan over low heat, making sure it doesn't become warm enough to simmer. Stir in the 1/2 teaspoon/2.5 g of cold butter and the spinach purée and season it with salt and cider vinegar.

Lay a glazed turnip leaf onto each warmed serving plate and dust it with flake salt. Sprinkle the skin side of each duck breast piece with a tiny pinch of flake salt, then set a piece across the leaf. Mound 6 to 8 turnip wedges on the leaf.

Stir the 1/2 teaspoon/2 g of grapeseed oil into the turnip sauce, then spoon a little less than a tablespoon of the sauce onto the turnip leaf and serve immediately.

BARELY WARMED PRAWNS WITH BARELY POACHED ROE

Spot prawn season runs from spring until fall, and most of ours are caught by Lummi tribe members. There are a few families who have sold their catch to The Willows for years, and they often deliver it by pulling their boats up onto the beach in front of the Inn. We'll buy a few hundred pounds at a time and keep them in our seawater tank a few days to make sure we have enough between catches.

Fresh, well-handled spot prawns have an incredible creamy and fresh flavor, almost like a langoustine, but better. I haven't found a way to eat spot prawns that I don't like, my favorite perhaps being grilled on the beach. We've prepared them about a dozen different ways, but this small dish is the best we've come up with at the restaurant to capture their flavor.

Making prawn butter is an amazing way to get the flavor to linger. We now make all sorts of flavored butters in the same fashion, using whichever parts don't end up as the centerpiece of a dish. We try to serve only the very best bits to our guests, and in this case, we can use prawn shells, undersized prawns, and any specimens that were mangled during peeling for the butter.

The method behind it involves extracting a stock from a paste, which we make using the whole shrimp. This does not result in the highest yield, but it creates an unbelievably pure flavor.

SERVES 4

20 large Haro Strait spot prawns with roe (about 600 g), whole with shells on

1/4 cup/55 g high-quality unsalted butter

Flake salt

Scrape the roe from each prawn with a teaspoon and place the roe in a fine-mesh strainer and let it drain until serving. Place 5 of the smallest prawns-shells on-into the blender. Peel the remaining prawns, setting 4 large tails aside to poach, and place the remaining tails in the blender. Put all of the peeled shells and heads in a medium saucepan with the butter.

PRAWN BUTTER

Cook the heads, shells, and butter over low heat, stirring occasionally, until the butter is a clear, bright orange, about 40 minutes. Strain the prawn butter through a Superbag and discard the solids.

PRAWN STOCK

Bring a stockpot of water to a boil. While it heats, pulse the prawns in the blender and blend until puréed to a sherbet-like consistency. Pour the prawn paste into a sous vide bag and vacuum seal on low. (The bag should be slightly larger than you may think you need, as the paste has a tendency to expand during the vacuum process.) Simmer the bag in the stockpot for 1 hour. The contents will separate into paste and liquid. Reserve all of the liquid-this is the stock. When cool enough to handle, squeeze the paste through a Superbag to extract more stock and discard the paste.

POACHED PRAWNS

Bring the prawn butter to 158°F/70°C in a small saucepan over medium heat. Remove the pan from the heat and cook the 4 reserved tails in the prawn butter until they begin to firm up and curl but still retain some translucence, 2 to 4 minutes.

TO SERVE

Warm the prawn stock in a small saucepan over low heat.

Place a poached prawn tail and 2 roe sacs in the bottom of each small, warmed serving bowl. Dress the prawn and roe with about 2 tablespoons of hot prawn stock and about 1 tablespoon of the still-warm prawn butter, giving the bowl a gentle swirl to combine the liquids. Finish with a pinch of flake salt.

A STIR-FRY OF WILD BEACH PEAS AND GIANT CLAMS

Tucked away behind Legoe Bay Road is a small shellfish farm that specializes in growing baby bivalves and is one of the few places in the world that raises geoduck seed. Part of the seeding process involves collecting very mature, wild geoducks from nearby beaches, and after they've been used for spawning, they are brought to The Willows.

Handling these enormous bivalves is a privilege that demands our full attention. The clams can be up to 150 years old, but instead of being as tough as leather, they're incredibly tender.

Beach peas grow rampant on our shores. Their flavor is similar to cultivated pea shoots, but with a succulent, slightly bitter character that goes well with the sweet brininess of geoduck and razor clams. They become something of a staple vegetable for us starting around April, the only time when they send out enough tender green shoots to make a dish like this possible. We make a salty, acidic dressing and season the stir-fried beach peas with grated dried smelt and scallops to deepen the flavors. At the end, the raw peas and their deep purple flowers help give this dish the look of the island's beaches in mid-spring.

SERVES 4

1 bunch beach peas (about 500 g)

4 large Quinault River razor clams (about 500 g)

1 cup/240 g high-quality heavy cream

1 cup/235 g clam stock (page 246)

Grapeseed oil

1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon/20 g high-quality unsalted butter

1 tablespoon/12 g reduced white wine (page 251)

Wash and dry the beach peas, trimming and composting anything not tender enough to eat raw (try a bite to be sure). Separate the pods, the leaves, and the tender tips. (You'll end up with fewer pods than leaves and tender tips.) In a bowl, create a mix of about one-third pods and two-thirds leaves and tender tips. Reserve some extra tips and discard any extra leaves.

Clean the razor clams, cut off and reserve the siphons, and reserve the feet. Cut the bodies in half lengthwise, then into pieces about an inch/2.5 cm wide.

Simmer the heavy cream in a small saucepan over low heat until reduced by half.

ENHANCED CLAM SAUCE

Warm the clam stock in a small saucepan over low heat. Chop the siphons into 1/2- to 1-inch/1 to 2.5 cm pieces and press them dry between layers of paper towel. Place a small sauté pan over high heat and coat with a thin layer of grapeseed oil. Sear the siphons and the feet in batches until caramelized. Deglaze the sauté pan with about 1/4 cup of the warmed clam stock and pour the siphons, feet, and remaining liquid into the saucepan with the clam stock. Cover the saucepan with plastic wrap and allow the liquid to steep for at least 20 minutes, then remove and discard the siphons and the feet.

Bring the infused clam stock to a simmer over medium-low heat. Stir in about 11/2 tablespoons of the reduced cream and the butter. Buzz the sauce with an immersion blender and season with the reduced wine. It should have an intense but delicious chowder flavor.

Put a pair of skillets over high heat and coat the bottom of each with grapeseed oil. In one, sauté the beach pea mixture, adding a tablespoon of water to help steam them. Stir in a generous tablespoon of the enhanced clam stock and immediately remove the greens from the heat. The whole process should take about a minute. Sear the clam pieces in the other skillet until caramelized and just cooked through, then remove from the heat.

TO SERVE

Layer the seared clams and sautéed beach peas onto each warmed serving plate. Spoon a teaspoon of enhanced clam stock over the top of each plate and garnish with the reserved tender beach pea tips.

WHOLE ROASTED KOHLRABI WITH CRUSHED CURRANTS AND MUSSELS

While beluga caviar and foie gras represent a certain kind of luxury, to me, luxury is a cupful of salmonberry shoots, which is the product of hours spent picking the branch ends, then isolating enough for a dinner for thirty. Or a spoonful of nectar-rich anise hyssop flowers, each one no larger than the head of a pin. This is our take on rare and elusive ingredients and, to me, a more exciting form of luxury.

For this dish, we slowly roast whole kohlrabi in loads of butter and herbs, turning and basting it for hours. The kohlrabi almost chars on the outside and absorbs all of the flavors of the herbs while its own flavor deepens. The musky flavor of roasted kohlrabi is accented by the distinct flavors of currants, anise hyssop flowers, and mussels, which make for a simple but extraordinary combination.

SERVES 4

FOR THE KOHLRABI

2 small kohlrabi bulbs, trimmed of leaves and shoots (about 150 g)

Grapeseed oil

3/4 cup/170 g high-quality unsalted butter, divided

8 sprigs thyme

4 sprigs rosemary

5 fresh bay leaves

5 sprigs parsley

1 shallot (about 45 g), roughly chopped

FOR THE MUSSEL CREAM

1/2 cup/120 g very cold mussel stock (page 246)

1/2 cup/120 g very cold high-quality heavy cream

FOR THE GARNISH

40 redcurrants, crushed with the back of a spoon

32 cilantro tips

4 teaspoons anise hyssop flowers

KOHLRABI

Trim any bits of stalk from each kohlrabi bulb, leaving as much skin on as possible and creating a nice, smooth exterior. Slice off the very top and bottom to create flat surfaces to sear. Heat a film of grapeseed oil in a saucepan just large enough to accommodate the kohlrabies over medium-high heat. (If you have a pair of smaller saucepans, you could put one kohlrabi in each.) Sear the tops and bottoms of the kohlrabi bulbs until they have a dark auburn color, 6 to 7 minutes per side, then tip them to sear their sides.

Add a third of the butter to the pan to braise the bottoms of the kohlrabi bulbs and reduce the heat to a point where the butter is gently bubbling. If the butter moves past the brown butter stage and heads toward burning, pour it out and add new butter-you'll likely need to do this about 3 times during the cooking. Flip the bulbs every 20 minutes until they are cooked through and tender enough to give easily when poked with a cake tester. (Cooking time will vary between 2 to 4 hours.)

Tie the thyme, rosemary, bay leaves, and parsley sprigs into a bouquet with butcher's twine and allow it to cook in the braising butter along with the shallot for about 5 minutes. Discard the bouquet and allow the pot to rest off the heat while you make the mussel cream.

MUSSEL CREAM

Combine the mussel stock and heavy cream in a metal mixing bowl and whip it vigorously for about 2 minutes until soft peaks form.

TO SERVE

Slice the kohlrabies in half horizontally, set each half seared-side down on a small, warmed serving plate, and spoon a teaspoon of the braising butter over the top. Add a dollop of mussel cream on the side of the plate and garnish with the crushed currants, cilantro tips, and anise hyssop flowers.

SLICES OF PORCINI MUSHROOMS WITH GRILLED ASPARAGUS JUICES

Once dinner is under way, we like having our chefs serve some dishes to our guests. It's a nice way to meet the people that have traveled so far to get here, and each cook tries to serve every table at least once. One night a few years ago, a young couple went bananas for a porcini dish that we served, and the guy asked me if I would like him to send me mushrooms that he collects. I must have told him to send some up, even though I didn't pay it too much thought.

A few days later, a thirty-pound box of the most pristine porcini I'd ever seen arrived on the kitchen steps with a note that said, "Thanks for dinner!" Two days after that, another huge box of perfect mushrooms arrived. The onslaught continued all through the fall season. When the porcinis started to slow down, he asked if we used matsutakes, then transitioned straight into sending box after box of matsutakes, all for credit toward his next meal. Since then, he has become one of our chief mushroom suppliers, sending dozens of mushroom varieties from all over the Pacific Northwest, always in the best condition I have ever seen. Working with Matt has allowed me to use types of mushrooms that I have only read about in foraging books and be introduced to many more that I might never have otherwise seen.

SERVES 4

FOR THE PORCINI BUTTER

1/4 cup/60 g high-quality unsalted butter

2 ounces/60 g porcini mushrooms, roughly chopped

FOR THE ASPARAGUS JUICE

14 large asparagus spears (about 210 g), trimmed

Salt

FOR THE PORCINI

4 ounces/115 g porcini mushrooms

1 teaspoon/5 g spinach purée (page 247)

Salt

3 tablespoons/40 g woodruff oil

28 woodruff flowers

PORCINI BUTTER

Preheat a sous vide water bath to 176°F/80°C and place the butter and the roughly chopped porcinis in a sous vide bag. Vacuum seal the bag on high and cook it in the water bath for 8 hours, then run the butter through a fine-mesh strainer. Discard the solids.

ASPARAGUS JUICE

Prepare a hot fire for direct grilling, and when it's ready, grill the asparagus until deep grill marks appear, about 3 minutes. Flip and cook for about 3 more minutes. The spears should still be al dente. Immediately place them on a quarter-sheet pan and tightly wrap the pan with plastic wrap, letting them sit until they're cooked through, 5 to 10 minutes.

Run the grilled asparagus through a juicer and season the juice with salt to taste. You should have about 1/2 cup of juice.

PORCINI

Clean all of the whole porcini by scraping their stems with a bird's-beak knife, then wipe the whole mushrooms down with a damp paper towel to give them a polished look. Cut the 2 best-looking porcini in half lengthwise and use a mandoline to slice those lengthwise about

inch/2 mm thick.

TO SERVE

Combine the asparagus juice, spinach purée, and a pinch of salt in a small saucepan over low heat.

In another small saucepan, heat a tablespoon of porcini butter, a few drops of water, and a sprinkle of salt over low heat, then add the sliced porcini and cook, stirring gently, until they are meltingly tender and almost creamy.

Arrange the cooked, sliced mushrooms at the bottom of each serving plate. Spoon a quarter of the warmed asparagus juice and 2 teaspoons of woodruff oil onto each plate, along with about 7 woodruff flowers. At the table, use a truffle slicer to shave about 8 paper-thin slices of the whole, raw porcini on top of each dish.

MANY TYPES OF WILD BERRIES IN A BROTH OF HERBS AND GRASSES

I like to see, taste, and collect what's growing wild on my walk to work in the morning. It's a chance to clear my head before the workday begins and to dream about a new dish or technique.

The variety of wild edibles on the island is so huge that I constantly discover new types of plants that I must have walked by a hundred times before. I like their direct flavor and try to feature a heavy dose of them on every menu.

There are so many wild edibles growing here, it's no wonder that the island was once guarded berry-picking grounds for the Lummi tribe.

When you live on a small island, collecting plants from the wild is more like stewarding than harvesting. We have to care for and look after the plants that we use for cooking so that as many or more grow back the following year. That might mean collecting the berries that we would like to use, then spending a few minutes clearing out any other plants that are competing with them for light.

I am always amazed by the way plants burst to life after a long winter. Angelica is usually one of the first, along with nettles and salmonberries, and they are followed by a barrage of green leaves and herbs of all different flavors. The days get longer quickly in the spring, and before long, we are overrun with dozens of wild berries and all sorts of edible plants. We follow along as the different plants mature, first on the west side of the island and then to the east, before moving up the mountainside to near-alpine meadows.

Much of what we serve is stark in its simplicity, but sometimes nature supplies us with such abundance that it would be unfair to our guests to exercise too much restraint.

SERVES 4

FOR THE GARNISH

16 lemon balm tips

16 angelica flowers

16 oregano flowers

16 wild geranium flowers

FOR THE GRASS BROTH

1 ounce/25 g wheatgrass, roughly chopped

1/2 ounce/13 g fresh dill

1/2 cup/35 g parsley leaves

2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons/40 g Stock syrup (page 256)

2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons/40 g verjus

3/4 ounce/22 g parsley purée (page 247)

FOR THE BERRIES

4 thimbleberries

8 wild raspberries

8 trailing blackberries

8 salmonberries

12 red huckleberries

16 redcurrants

4 Indian plums

4 gooseberries

4 blueberries

4 salal berries

4 aronia berries

Parsley oil (page 242)

GRASS BROTH

In a blender, combine 3/4 cup/190 g water with the wheatgrass, dill, parsley leaves, and stock syrup and blend on high until the liquid is puréed, with just small bits of herbs, about 15 seconds. Pass the liquid through a Superbag and skim the foam from the top of the strained liquid. Season with the verjus (you may need a little more or less than the called-for amount) and stir in the parsley purée to thicken the mixture.

TO SERVE

Arrange a mix of berries in the bottom of each chilled serving bowl. Drizzle about a tablespoon of the grass broth and a few drops of parsley oil over the berries and garnish with the herbs and flowers.

GRILLED LEAVES OF CARAFLEX CABBAGE WITH LEMON VERBENA

I was blown away when I first tasted cone-shaped Caraflex cabbage in 2011. Every time I eat it, it is amazing to me that any other type of cabbage would ever be grown.

Caraflex has a juicy, crisp texture and a mild, sweet flavor, and the leaves are surprisingly delicious and tender when eaten raw. The large cabbages grow quickly and flower early in the year, whirling into dense cones that we can start using by late May, roasting or grilling the heads to amplify their flavor.

I like to poach the quartered heads of cabbage in butter with sprigs of verbena and then grill them before separating the leaves and folding them over each other. For this dish, we lighten the full flavor of charred cabbage with a bright sauce made from homemade rhubarb wine and verbena.

SERVES 4

FOR THE GARNISH

20 small verbena leaves

FOR THE VERBENA SAUCE

1 cup/240 g rhubarb wine (page 237)

1 cup/225 g high-quality unsalted butter, cut into 3/4-inch/2 cm cubes

1 cup/60 g lightly packed verbena leaves

Salt

Reduced white wine (page 251)

1 tablespoon/15 g spinach purée (page 247)

FOR THE CABBAGE

1/2 medium Caraflex cabbage (about 225 g)

1/4 cup/55 g high-quality unsalted butter

1 sprig verbena

1 teaspoon/5 g grapeseed oil

Flake salt

VERBENA SAUCE

Reduce the rhubarb wine in a small saucepan over medium heat until only about 2 tablespoons remain. Whisk in the butter, a cube at a time, then remove the pan from the heat. Pour the liquid into a blender, add the verbena leaves, and blend on medium until the leaves are liquefied. Allow the mixture to steep in a warm spot for 1 hour. Strain it through a Superbag into another small saucepan and season it with salt and reduced white wine. Stir in the spinach purée.

CABBAGE

Heat a sous vide water bath to 185°F/85°C. Cut the cabbage half in half, pole to pole, leaving 2 quarters. Place the quarters in a sous vide bag with the butter and verbena and vacuum seal the bag on high. Cook the cabbage in the water bath until it's tender, about 2 hours. Drop the bag into an ice bath until the cabbage is cold. Drain the liquid from the bag, remove the cabbage, and pat it dry. Discard the verbena sprig.

Prepare a fire for direct grilling. Toss the cabbage quarters in the grapeseed oil, then grill their flat sides until they are deeply browned. Remove the cabbage from the heat and separate the individual leaves from the core-you'll only use about 20 of the thicker, sturdier leaves. Place those on a parchment-lined tray and sprinkle them with flake salt.

TO SERVE

In small, warmed serving bowls, fold and curl the cabbage leaves to give the dish a bit of height. Pour 2 tablespoons of verbena sauce around the bottom of each bowl and garnish the top of the cabbage with the verbena leaves.

WARM BLUEBERRIES AND AN ICE CREAM MADE FROM SWEET WOODRUFF

This is one of my favorite desserts-the combination of a hot, malty stew of blueberries and cool woodruff ice cream works very well together. I love creating a balance between sweet and crunchy, hot and sticky, and cool and fresh.

The ice cream is made with both fresh and dried woodruff, making it a dish that can only really be made in late summer, after we have harvested the first trimmings of woodruff for drying and it has regrown, flowering for the last time before it goes to seed in the early fall. It is important to use very high-quality milk whenever you make ice cream, as it is the main ingredient, and to treat the ice cream base as you might a fresh herb sauce-working quickly and keeping it very cold-to keep the flavors bright. Similarly, berries lose their flavor very quickly after picking, particularly in the case of blueberries; their texture also suffers as they age. It is important to make the extra effort to use the best berries available. For us, this means driving to a nearby farm several times a week to get berries picked that morning.

SERVES 4

FOR THE MALT COOKIES

2 fresh egg yolks from Riley Starks

1 tablespoon plus 1/2 teaspoon/15 g dark syrup (page 256)

1 scant tablespoon/15 g squid ink

11/4 cups/125 g sifted all-purpose flour

1/4 cup/25 g sifted cornstarch

1 tablespoon/10 g malt powder

1/4 teaspoon/.75 g kosher salt

1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons/125 g high-quality unsalted butter, at room temperature

3 tablespoons/30 g granulated sugar

FOR THE WOODRUFF ICE CREAM

3 cups/790 g whole milk

1/2 cup/125 g heavy cream

1/2 cup/105 g granulated sugar

3 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon/65 g corn syrup

6 cups/70 g roughly chopped woodruff sprigs, plus 24 sprigs for garnish

2 tablespoons/30 g spinach purée (page 247)

2 sheets bronze leaf gelatin

2 tablespoons dark syrup (page 256)

1 cup/175 g just-picked blueberries

Verjus

1/2 cup/50 g meringue (page 255)

MALT COOKIES

Stir the yolks, dark syrup, and ink together in a small bowl. In a medium bowl, combine the flour, cornstarch, malt powder, and kosher salt. Cut the butter into 1/2-inch/1 cm cubes, then place the cubes in a stand mixer with the sugar and mix on medium with the paddle attachment until combined, about 1 minute. Add the yolk mixture and mix on medium until combined, occasionally stopping to scrape down the sides.

Add the flour mixture to the mixer bowl and mix on low, stopping as soon as the entire mixture is uniformly dark. Portion the dough into hunks of about 1/2 cup/100 g each. (This recipe makes about 8 portions of the dough, and anything not being used immediately can be frozen at this point.)

Preheat the oven to 300°F/150°C. Put the portions of dough between two Silpat mats or layers of parchment paper. Roll the dough as thin as possible without creating holes and freeze it until the dough takes on a puttylike consistency and no longer sticks to both sides of the Silpat or parchment, 5 to 10 minutes.

Remove the top Silpat or parchment and put the flattened dough and the Silpat or parchment beneath it onto a half-sheet pan and bake until crisp, about 20 minutes. Let cool, then crush with your fingers into pieces no larger than 1/2 inch/1 cm.

WOODRUFF ICE CREAM

Whisk together the milk, cream, granulated sugar, and corn syrup in a large saucepan. Bring it to just below a simmer (it should be steaming, not boiling) over medium heat.

Place the woodruff sprigs in the blender, then remove the milk mixture from the heat and pour it over the woodruff. Mix until thoroughly blended and only tiny flecks of the leaves remain, about 30 seconds. Let the mixture steep for 5 minutes and strain it through a fine-mesh strainer, then through a Superbag. Whisk in the spinach purée to give the liquid a more saturated green color and season it with more granulated sugar if necessary. Pour about 2 tablespoons of the liquid into a small saucepan and the rest into a Pacojet beaker.

Soak the gelatin sheets in cold water until they bloom-becoming hydrated and completely supple-5 to 10 minutes. Gently hand-squeeze the sheets to expel any water pockets and place them in the saucepan with the woodruff liquid. Melt the gelatin over low heat, then whisk it into the Pacojet beaker with the woodruff liquid. Freeze the mixture and keep it in the freezer until serving.

TO SERVE

Process the ice cream in the Pacojet.

Heat the dark syrup in a small saucepan over medium heat and reduce it until only about 2 teaspoons remain. Reduce the heat to low, add the blueberries to the saucepan, and stir gently but quickly to coat the berries in the dark syrup glaze until they're just warmed through, 20 to 30 seconds. Season them with a few drops of verjus.

Dot each dessert plate with 3 domes of meringue (about 1/4 inch/.5 cm across), then gently toast their exterior with a blowtorch. Put a cluster of berries on the plate, then a scant tablespoon of the crumbled malt cookies over the top of the berries. Place 1/2 teaspoon of crumbled cookies in a line to the side of the berries. Tuck a few woodruff sprigs into the spaces between the berries and set a scoop of the ice cream on the line of cookie crumbs.

BUNDLES OF ROMANO BEANS ROASTED OVER OREGANO SPRIGS

Romano beans are at their best before they are fully grown and getting a bit stringy. The beans must be amazing raw in order to be amazing cooked, and we simply bundle them around sprigs of oregano and grill them over hot coals. When the outside has a good char, we pull them from the grill and baste them with a flavorful herb sauce and lardo.

SERVES 4

FOR THE HERB SAUCE

1/2 cup/15 g marjoram leaves

1/2 cup/15 g oregano leaves

1/2 cup/15 g parsley leaves

1/2 cup/120 g grapeseed oil

1 anchovy fillet

Salt

Verjus

Fermented green garlic brine (page 240)

FOR THE GRILLED ROMANO BEANS

11/2 ounces/40 g frozen Mangalitsa lardo

8 ounces/240 g Romano beans

8 sprigs oregano

Grapeseed oil

HERB SAUCE

Crush the marjoram, oregano, parsley, oil, and anchovy with a mortar and pestle to form a thick paste. Season the sauce with salt, verjus, and fermented green garlic brine and immediately transfer it to the refrigerator, with a piece of parchment cut to fit directly on the surface of the sauce to prevent any discoloration.

GRILLED ROMANO BEANS

Grate the frozen lardo into a medium mixing bowl. Wearing plastic gloves, work it into a smooth paste with your hands. Transfer the lardo into a small piping bag and allow it to warm to room temperature.

Trim the stem ends from the Romano beans and tie them with the oregano sprigs into 4 tight bundles with kitchen twine.

Prepare a grill for direct grilling, brush the bundled beans with grapeseed oil, and grill them, rotating occasionally. When the beans are just cooked through, remove them from the heat, untie, and discard the oregano.

TO SERVE

Pipe a quarter of the lardo into the center of each bundle of beans, turning each bundle to dress it with the lardo. Plate the bundles and nap each plate with a full tablespoon of the herb sauce.

SMOKED SOCKEYE SALMON

Smoked salmon is a pillar of cuisine in the Pacific Northwest, and the region even has its own style of smokehouse. Most locals know how to smoke salmon, and those who don't tend to know scores of people who do.

When I first arrived at The Willows, I knew that I wanted to serve perfect smoked salmon. Not long after I started working here, Robert Keller, a Lummi Island local and friend of The Willows, stopped by to use our vacuum sealer to bag some salmon he had just smoked. He gave me a bite and it was easily the best that I'd ever tried. I tagged along with him the next time he smoked a batch so I could see how well-made smoked salmon is made.

I learned that I had a lot to learn.

There are big differences in the way each type of salmon smokes. To me, sockeye works particularly well and is what we serve nightly; the flavor and texture are sublime if you do it just right. Brining and then drying the fish is a key step that wicks some of the water from the flesh and makes each flake densely packed with flavor.

Smoking fish is much easier on cold, dry winter days than on hot or rainy days when the smokehouse needs more attention. Temperature, humidity, and barometric pressure all play a part in how the salmon reacts to the smoke. A gentle smoke tastes much different than a heavy smoke, so I tend to smoke very lightly over longer time periods. Finally, our smoked salmon must not be baked-if the temperature in the smoker gets too hot, the sashimi-like texture that I love turns into something akin to baked salmon.

We get all of our salmon for the year from right here on the island in the span of a short, three-week season, all of it coming from the reefnetters just off of Lummi's shore. The reefnet salmon, which can include pink, silver, and chum salmon as well as the sockeye, are all exceptional fish. Since their ultimate destinations are far up British Columbia's Fraser River and its tributaries, they are at an early stage of their journey when they reach Lummi and still have large amounts of stored fat. They are all handled individually, live-bled, and immediately slush-iced.

The difference between a reefnet fish and a gill net or purse seine fish is obvious immediately upon cutting into it. The reefnet fish is bright, clean, and virtually bloodless, while the flesh of the fish caught with other methods has a dark, dull color. The difference in flavor follows a similar parallel. Reefnet fish are fresh, firm, and clean, while the other fish have an unmistakable fishiness and a slight flabbiness, even when fresh, that I've come to identify with the blood they've retained.

I've been smoking salmon just about every day since I first met Robert, gradually tweaking and improving my technique the whole time. My salmon now is quite different from his, but I still like to think of what we serve as a piece of traditional Northwest smoked salmon, perfected by daily practice.

YIELDS 2 WHOLE FILLETS

FOR THE SALT BRINE

1 cup/200 g kosher salt

FOR THE GLAZE

1/2 cup/115 g high-quality unsalted butter

1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon packed/125 g brown sugar

1/4 cup/55 g verjus

Salt

FOR THE SALMON

2 Lummi Island Wild sockeye salmon fillets (about 760 g total), pin bones removed

SALT BRINE

In a large resealable container, whisk the salt into 1 quart/1 L of hot water until it's completely dissolved, then store the brine in the refrigerator until cold.

GLAZE

Melt the butter in a medium saucepan over low heat. Once the butter begins to foam, whisk the brown sugar in slowly. Let it heat for 5 minutes to ensure all of the sugar has melted. Whisk in the verjus and add salt to taste, then cover the pan and reserve in the refrigerator.

SALMON

Trim the collar, belly, and tail end to create a form that's rectangular seen from above and a uniform, flattened "D" shape from the side. About a third of the fillet will be trimmed away as scrap.

Cut individual portions that are about 3/4 inch/2 cm wide and place them in the container with the salt brine. Cut a sheet of parchment paper to fit the inside of the container, then lay it on top of the water to keep the salmon out of contact with the air. Brine for 37 minutes, then drain and quickly rinse with fresh water.

Line a half-sheet pan with a double layer of kraft paper. The fish will smoke right on the paper, so make sure that the paper is cut small enough to fit inside the smoker. Set the fish on the pan, skin-side down, making sure each piece is positioned squarely upright and allowing plenty of space for air to circulate between each portion. Place the fish, uncovered, in the refrigerator to dry overnight, as close to the fan as possible.

The following day, start the smoker and set the salmon, still on the kraft paper but without the tray, into the smoker and away from the heat. As it smokes, make sure the fish is not sweating too much or drying out. (If it is, remove the salmon from the smoker until the smoker is cooler.) It should become slightly taut on the exterior, and the color will intensify while the cut edges become slightly white and translucent.

After about 21/2 hours, warm the glaze over low heat until it reaches 150°F/65°C-a temperature that's just warm enough to spread thickly, but not so warm that it cooks the fish. Remove the salmon from the smoker and allow it to cool to room temperature, then apply a thick layer of glaze with a basting brush. Smoke the fish for another hour, then remove the salmon from the kraft paper using a small off set spatula, sliding the spatula blade between the flesh and the skin, leaving the skin on the kraft paper. Brush the top of each portion with a second coat of glaze.

TO SERVE

Plate and serve immediately. If not serving the fish straight from the smoker, preheat the oven to 200°F/93°C and warm the salmon in the oven for 4 minutes before serving.

The process for our smoked cod (and the other fish we smoke) is very similar. We use a 11/4-pound/580 g black cod fillet, slicing the portions on the bias. The brining time should be shorter-about 6 minutes-and the fish should only smoke for about 3 hours on individual 6 × 6-inch/15 × 15 cm sheets of kraft paper. The pin bones are more easily removed after smoking, and there's no glazing.

BRAISED SEAWEED WITH DUNGENESS CRAB AND BROWN BUTTER

Diving into the waters off Lummi is a bracing experience-you might want to have a few drinks before you take the plunge. After a few moments in the shockingly cold water, your body becomes numb, though you swear you can almost feel ice crystals forming in your spine. In a good way. In the summer, the water is just a few degrees warmer than it is in the winter, but it is lit up with phosphorescent plankton that trace glowing circles following your arms and legs on a midnight swim.

The ulva seaweed that we use for this dish lies dormant all winter, before it slowly starts to come back in the spring. By the end of summer, it grows like grass and we can pull huge sheets off the rocks. If this dish is in your section at the restaurant, an important part of your prep for the day and week is to keep track of the tide charts and when the best time to harvest the seaweed might be. If several days of higher tides are coming in, you might need to do a bit of wading.

The water in and around the Puget Sound is also rich with crustaceans. Next to the ferry dock on the mainland is a Lummi fish merchant. Their crab traps pile up down the length of their dock on the days that are closed to fishing. If there are no traps on the dock, I know I can probably get fresh crab the following day. At the restaurant, we have a large seawater tank just outside the kitchen where we can hold huge numbers of crab and spot prawns in pristine condition for up to a month, feeding them some clams when they get hungry. Having the large tank helps us to work directly with the fishermen and coordinate with their regulated season of openings and quotas, while giving us a bit of a buffer in case we get a week of foul weather and they can't fish.

When making this intensely flavored dish, it is important to use live crab and to clean them thoroughly. This dish is very tasty-brown butter and crab go remarkably well together-but it's one that is not made better by serving more of it.

SERVES 4

2 live Dungeness crabs (about 1.8 kg)

2 cups/500 g mussel stock (page 246)

4 ounces/100 g fresh ulva seaweed

1/4 cup/55 g high-quality unsalted butter, browned

1/4 cup/10 g freshly grated horseradish

1 tablespoon/10 g grapeseed oil

Salt

CRAB

Fill a stockpot with 5 quarts/4.75 L of seawater (if you can't get seawater, you can use freshwater mixed with 3/4 cups/175 g kosher salt) and bring to boil. Remove the pot from the heat, add one of the crabs, cover tightly, and let it cook off the heat for 36 minutes. Place the crab on ice and let it chill until cool enough to handle. Pick the crab clean-it should yield about 11/3 cups/225 g crabmeat. Set the bits of shell in a large saucepan and place the crabmeat in a container on a bed of crushed ice.

CRAB STOCK

In the large saucepan, crush the shell and the other live crab with the blunt end of a rolling pin until all shell fragments are smaller than 1 square inch/2.5 square cm, then pour the mussel stock over the top. Cover the saucepan tightly with plastic wrap and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and let the stock steep, still covered, for another 15 minutes, then strain it through a fine-mesh strainer.

SEAWEED

Dry the ulva seaweed overnight in a dehydrator (it should be crisp enough to break). Place the dried seaweed in a 4-quart/3.75 L container and add 31/2 quarts/3.5 L of just-boiled water. Let it soak for 30 minutes. Drain and repeat with fresh, just-boiled water for another 30 minutes. Drain the seaweed for 30 minutes, then put it into a medium saucepan and add half of the crab stock. Simmer for 30 minutes, then allow it to marinate for 2 hours, covered, in the refrigerator.

TO SERVE

Reheat the seaweed and the stock it was marinating in over low heat. In a separate small saucepan over low heat, warm the remaining crab stock with the brown butter. In a third pot, also over low heat, combine the crabmeat with the freshly grated horseradish and grapeseed oil. Use salt to adjust the seasoning for both the seaweed and the crabmeat.

Divide the crab evenly between each small, shallow warmed serving bowl and cover the crab with a layer of seaweed. Stir the brown butter and crab stock mixture and spoon 3 teaspoons of it over each dish.

SUMMER FLOWERS FROM THE FARM

Spending time in our small garden has shown me a new world of ingredients, tastes, and textures that have been a dream to explore. The sight of our small farm bursting with life in the summer is always encouraging to me. The vibrancy of the growing plants and the bright colors of their flowers meets a warm breeze, the buzzing of bugs, and the sound of the sea. I walk between the farm's rows of produce almost every day, snipping off a leaf or twig as I go, waiting for inspiration from the bright flavors. Much of the time, the clues are obvious, almost screaming, that a plant is at a stage of flavor so amazing that it is a near masterpiece in itself. This is particularly noticeable with some of the herb and vegetable flowers, which explode with flavor and make for an exciting shared plate.

I have become very aware of plant habits, life cycles, and even their likes and dislikes. "Seasonal'' becomes a whole new word that doesn't really describe a set time of the year and certainly not four quarters of a year. Plants don't naturally fruit for long periods: they throw all their energy into reproducing, and generally speaking, a given plant will only have ripe fruit or vegetables for a few weeks if you're lucky. Here, the four seasons of the year can feel more like thirty!

Mary von Krusenstiern is a remarkable farmer. She runs the farm like a Michelin-starred kitchen and is every bit as curious and excited as I am. We grow 100 percent of the produce for the ten months that The Willows is open, which makes for a challenging proposal, but one that's possible if we're disciplined. Mary and I meet each day, including at the beginning and end of every season. Around November, we review our notes to see which plants grew well and which varieties we liked the best, and we organize the order for the coming year's seeds. Even though we are fairly far north, we rarely get much snow, and the ground doesn't usually freeze. Even in the winter months when the kitchen is closed, we can continue to grow and overwinter plants. We do battle with a lack of sunlight, though...plants and people alike. It is almost always overcast in the winter, and the sun sets around three in the afternoon. Sometimes, a week will go by with no actual sun sighting. With that little light, plants don't grow as much as they simply maintain. They're not growing or dying. They're just waiting. At the first hint of spring, however, they explode back to life.

We grow as many varieties of any given plant as possible, and each year we have a number of experimental crops, always looking for new plants to cook with. What is usually considered the edible part of the plant is often just an abbreviation of the whole. The stems, flowers, seeds, leaves, and roots can all be used.

SERVES 4

FOR THE NASTURTIUM FLOWER SAUCE

5 ounces/150 g nasturtium flowers

1 tablespoon/17 g high-quality cider vinegar

11/2 teaspoons/8 g Dijon mustard

1/4 cup/25 g crushed ice

1/2 cup/110 g cold grapeseed oil

Salt

FOR THE SALAD

1 pound/500 g pattypan squash

Grapeseed oil

Salt

Verjus

12 assorted basil leaves, such as Genovese, Thai, dark opal, purple ruffles, and spicy globe

12 nasturtium leaves, about 1 inch/2.5 cm across

20 perfect nasturtium flower petals

8 zucchini blossoms, each torn into about 8 strips

NASTURTIUM FLOWER SAUCE

Combine the nasturtium flowers, cider vinegar, Dijon, and ice in a blender. Blend on low until everything begins to catch in the blender, then switch to high to liquefy. Add the grapeseed oil slowly, as if making a mayonnaise, and blend until completely smooth, about 1 minute.

Strain the mixture through a fine-mesh strainer into a small container on ice. Season sparingly with salt and refrigerate until ready to serve.

SALAD

Two hours before serving, prepare a grill for direct grilling. Coat the squash with oil and grill it whole, turning frequently, until the skin is blistered and charred and the center is completely soft. Remove it from the heat and once cool, crack the squash in half (like an egg), drop the halves into a Superbag, and squeeze the juice into a large bowl. Season the juice with salt and verjus, then add the basil, nasturtium leaves, nasturtium flower petals, and zucchini blossoms to the bowl and toss to dress them in the roasted squash juice.

TO SERVE

Place the dressed salad next to a tablespoon of nasturtium flower sauce on each small serving plate.

ESCAROLE DRESSED WITH HOMEMADE CAPERS

Whole braised heads of escarole glazed in roasted onion juices makes for a winter entrée that many find surprising. It is eye opening to some customers who are accustomed to large portions of steak to have such a savory and satisfying entrée made from just a few vegetables. Yet this dish eats more like a piece of steak than a salad; it's savory and satisfyingly full of umami flavor. I like to roll the glazed escarole halves in homemade capers and tiny thyme leaves before placing each on the plate, unaccompanied.

SERVES 4

FOR THE GARNISH

28 thyme tips

12 wild geranium flowers

4 teaspoons/13 g thyme oil (page 242)

4 teaspoons/12 g elderflower capers (page 241)

11/2 ounces/40 g thinly sliced apple capers (page 241)

FOR THE ONION SAUCE

2 cups/475 g onion stock (page 248), divided

A knife point (very tiny pinch) of xanthan gum

Verjus

High-quality cider vinegar

FOR THE ESCAROLE

Grapeseed oil

2 large heads escarole (about grapefruit size), halved lengthwise

GARNISH

Pick the thyme tips and wild geranium blossoms into ice water and store them in a damp paper towel-lined container until serving.

ONION SAUCE

Pour half of the onion stock into a very small saucepan. Place an immersion blender in the pan, start blending, and slowly incorporate the xanthan gum, then bring to a simmer and keep warm over low heat. Skim the surface with a strainer and season with a few drops of verjus and cider vinegar.

ESCAROLE

Heat a large skillet over high heat, add a thin layer of grapeseed oil, and when the oil shimmers, add the escarole halves, flat-side down. Cook until nicely charred, about 2 minutes. Reduce the heat to medium, drain any oil from the skillet, and add the remaining half of the onion stock. Allow the escarole to braise for 3 minutes, then flip it and cook for another 3 minutes, constantly basting the escarole as it cooks.

Remove the escarole from the skillet and set it on a paper towel, flat-side up.

TO SERVE

Place a wedge of escarole on each plate and nap it with 2 tablespoons of the onion sauce and 1 teaspoon of thyme oil. Garnish with the thyme tips, geranium flowers, and elderflower and apple capers.

DRIED MIRABELLE PLUM SKINS, A CANDY MADE FROM ROSEMARY

In the late summer, wild plums ripen all over the island during a very short season. These plums can be red or yellow, and they have larger pits and thicker skin than cultivated plums. We collected them and experimented, working our way toward a plum dessert. One trial had the plums stewing uncovered in a pot, and we found that the skins floating to the top were exposed to the air and became leathery, with a concentrated flavor. After drying those skins a touch more in front of the hearth, they were perfect.

SERVES 4

16 Mirabelle plums (about 1 kg)

Stock syrup (page 256)

1 (10-inch/25 cm) square rosemary candy (page 257), broken into 1/2-inch/1 cm shards

PLUM SKINS

Quarter 3 of the best-looking plums and discard the pits. Carefully slice the skins from each quarter, leaving them with about 1/8 inch/3 mm of flesh. Cover and refrigerate the skins and place the scrap in a medium metal mixing bowl.

PLUM PURÉE

Pit and roughly chop the remaining plums. Place about 21/2 cups/375 g of the chopped plums in the blender (reserving the remaining chopped plums) and blend on high until completely liquefied, about 30 seconds. Push the liquid through a sieve with a rubber scraper. Season the purée with stock syrup and reserve it in the refrigerator.

PLUM GRANITA

Add the remaining roughly chopped plums to the mixing bowl with the scrap from the skins and cover the bowl tightly with 3 layers of plastic wrap. Half fill a stockpot with water, bring it to a boil, and set the mixing bowl over it. Let the plums cook with the water simmering beneath until the plum liquid is tinted red and the flesh is barely holding together, about 2 hours. Strain the plum liquid through a Superbag into another mixing bowl, discarding any solids. Season this jus with stock syrup to balance acidity and sweetness. Pour the jus into a 9 × 5 × 3-inch (23 × 13 × 7.5 cm) loaf pan, cover, and freeze.

Scrape the surface of the frozen jus in a crosshatch pattern with the tines of a fork to create the granita. Remove the granita from the pan and reserve it in the freezer in a cold, empty container.

TO SERVE

Preheat the oven to 300°F/150°C. Spread the plum skins, flesh-side down, across a baking sheet lined with a Silpat mat or parchment paper and heat them in the oven until the plum skin wrinkles, about 6 minutes.

Place a tablespoon of plum purée in the center of each small, chilled serving bowl. Cover the purée with 3 tablespoons of granita. Top the granita with 3 plum skins and a few shards of rosemary candy.

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD AND CHICKEN DRIPPINGS

Up at Nettles Farm, Riley Starks raises chickens for eggs, and at times I think that there might be as many as 200 birds up there on his little plot. They roam around the farm, turning over the dirt a little as they go. We send up organic kitchen scraps to help feed them.

When chickens are about a year and a half old, their egg production slows and they become known as "retired layers." These are the birds we use to create what we call "chicken pan drippings," a dish that we serve with really good bread and butter.

The bread we serve it with is something I have been making every day since I arrived, over and over, constantly working to master it. We use 100 percent whole wheat flour and coarse rye from a local farm that mills them for us at the beginning of each week.

This recipe is unique in that we pre-ferment more than half the dough while we soak the other part of the flour overnight for an extra-long autolyse (the resting period between mixing and kneading). We get the best results adding a small amount of commercial yeast during mixing, which gives the whole wheat dough a bit of a boost. After the initial mix, the dough is slowly proofed overnight before being shaped and baked.

Our bread oven is a hearth with thick stone walls. It takes an entire morning of firing to heat it, and then another hour before the heat evens out enough for us to put the loaves inside. We can fit exactly eleven large loaves of bread into the oven if perfectly placed. We then spray a light misting of water inside to fill the oven with steam and seal the door. We bake the bread quickly to achieve a crisp, dark-brown crust and custard-like crumb. After the loaves have cooled, I like to toast them in the oven just before serving to re-crisp the crust and heat them through.

WHOLE WHEAT BREAD

YIELDS 1 LOAF

2 cups/275 g hard red winter wheat flour

11/2 cups/275 g 100% hydration coarse rye starter

3/4 teaspoon/2 g fresh cake yeast

1 tablespoon plus 1/4 teaspoon/11 g salt

1/4 cup/35 g rye flour

1/4 cup/35 g rice flour

DAY 1

Combine the hard red winter wheat flour with 3/4 cup/190 g of water in the bowl of a stand mixer. Use your hands to mix the flour and water, cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and allow it to sit overnight.

DAY 2

Add the coarse rye starter, breaking it up with your hands as you add it, along with the fresh cake yeast.

Mix on low with a bread hook until the dough just comes together, about 1 minute. Let the dough rest in the bowl for 30 minutes at room temperature, then add the salt and mix on medium high until the dough comes together tightly around the hook, about 7 minutes.

Transfer the dough to an oiled, medium metal mixing bowl and refrigerate for 20 minutes.

Remove the dough from the refrigerator, wet your hands, and, with the dough still in the bowl, fold it two thirds of the way over itself 4 times, giving it a quarter turn after each fold. Turn the dough over in the bowl, flipping it so the seams in the dough are at the bottom of the bowl. Wait 20 minutes and repeat the 4 folds, cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and refrigerate overnight.

DAY 3

Preheat the oven with a baking stone set inside to 500°F/260°C. Combine the rye and rice flours and use them to dust a dough-rising basket.

Dust the counter with the same flour and transfer the cool dough to the counter, gently coaxing it from the bowl with a plastic dough card or your hand.

In as few movements as possible, shape the dough into a ball on the counter, taking care not to tear it. The dough should be about 6 inches/15 cm across.

Flip the dough over onto a clean, floured surface and gently form the dough into a ball by giving it about 4 quick quarter turns with cupped hands. Flip the dough one more time, then place it into the dough-rising basket and cover it with a plastic bag or lightly moistened towel. Proof the dough at about 70°F/21°C.

After 40 minutes, poke about 1/2 inch/1 cm into the dough with a floured finger. It will be ready to bake when the surface of the dough springs back slowly and leaves a slight indent. If it springs back quickly and returns to its original shape, cover and check again in 10 minutes.

Dust a pizza peel with the rice/rye flour mixture. Transfer the loaf from the dough-rising basket to the paddle and slide it into the oven, quickly spraying the surface of the dough and the inside of the oven with a mister.

Bake for 20 minutes, then rotate the loaf 180 degrees and return to the oven for another 20 minutes. Rotate 180 degrees again and return to the oven for another 20 minutes. Test the bread to see if it is done; it should be dark golden brown with a firm bottom that makes a hollow sound when tapped.

Cool the loaf on a wire rack for 30 minutes before slicing.

CHICKEN DRIPPINGS

YIELDS ABOUT 2 CUPS/400 G

4 whole chickens

1/2 cup/110 g high-quality unsalted butter, plus more for serving

2 tablespoons/15 g finely diced shallot

2 teaspoons/25 g minced fresh parsley

2 teaspoons/25 g minced fresh tarragon

2 teaspoons/25 g minced fresh chervil

High-quality cider vinegar

Place 3 of the chickens in a stockpot, add water until they're just covered, bring to a boil, and keep them at a low simmer for 4 hours. Strain the liquid through a fine-mesh sieve and discard the carcasses.

Preheat the oven to 400°F/204°C. Rub the remaining chicken all over with the butter, including under the skin and in the cavity. Set it in a roasting pan and roast until it is caramelized and the butter in the pan has browned, about 10 minutes.

Strain the buttery chicken drippings and reserve.

Add the roasted chicken to the strained stock in a large saucepan and bring to a rolling boil. Allow it to reduce, occasionally skimming the foam from the surface, until only a few cups of liquid remain (a couple of hours). Lower the heat to medium to slow the reduction and continue to reduce until the liquid is thick enough to coat a spoon and tastes like you've scooped it up from underneath a perfect roast chicken. There should be about 2 cups.

Pour the liquid through a fine-mesh strainer and stir in the reserved buttery chicken drippings. Stir in the shallots, parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Season with cider vinegar. Pour the liquid into a dipping bowl and serve with a loaf of fresh bread and some good butter.

TINY SQUID AND CHARRED RADICCHIO WITH GREEN ONIONS

The delicious flavor of bitter vegetables with a deep char is something I try to have on the menu in some form or another most of the year, and I usually use something like frisée, radicchio, endive, escarole, puntarelle, or chicory.

This particular dish came about when we noticed how closely the hue and color pattern of charred radicchio resembles that of caramelized squid. I like to camouflage the purple-red bodies of the squid in a stack of grilled radicchio leaves and drizzle some of the squids' juices over the top. Each uniform-looking bite is full of both roasted and bitter flavors and different textures, accentuated by the sweet squid.

Making the sauce is ingredient- and labor-intensive, and it yields a scant amount, but the result has a great intensity that's worth the effort. The same method works well with razor clams, hearty cuts of meat, and mushrooms.

SERVES 4

16 Puget Sound squid (about 1.4 kg)

Grapeseed oil

Elderberry caper brine (page 241)

1/2 small head radicchio (about 150 g)

Flake salt

4 teaspoons/40 g charred scallion purée (page 249)

Clean the squid carefully, trying not to tear the skin, and blot it dry with paper towels, reserving 8 of the best mantles on a paper towel-lined tray over ice. Place the remaining mantles and all of the tentacles in a strainer over a bowl-these will be used for stock.

SQUID STOCK

Pour a thin layer of grapeseed oil into a large sauté pan over medium-high heat. When the oil begins to smoke, work in batches to sauté the stock squid until rosy and beginning to caramelize and release juices, about 45 seconds. After each batch, place the squid and the pan juices in a medium mixing bowl and allow the sauté pan to come back up to temperature, adding more grapeseed oil to the pan, if necessary. When the last batch is done, tightly cover the bowl of cooked squid with plastic wrap and set it in a warm spot for 5 to 10 minutes to allow the squid to release additional juices. Strain the juice into a bowl, pressing down on the squid with the back of a spoon to extract as much liquid as possible, then season with elderberry caper brine.

RADICCHIO

Peel 2 unblemished leaves from the outside of the radicchio and remove and discard any white sections from them. Tear those leaves into irregular-shaped pieces no larger than 3/4 inch/2 cm across and place them in an ice bath for a few minutes to crisp them. Spin the pieces dry in a salad spinner and refrigerate until serving.

Cut the radicchio half in half, pole to pole, leaving 2 quarters. Place a large sauté pan over high heat. Add a layer of grapeseed oil and heat until smoking. Caramelize the flat sides of the radicchio quarters, then test the interior; the radicchio is done when the outer leaves are beginning to wilt, while the interior still maintains some crunch. If it needs more time, return it to the pan, cooking it on its curved exterior surface. Set the radicchio on a tray lined with paper towel and sprinkle it lightly with flake salt.

TO SERVE

Wipe out the sauté pan with a paper towel, return the pan to high heat, and pour in a thin film of grapeseed oil. Once smoking, sauté the reserved raw squid mantles, dark-side down, holding them flat against the pan with an offset spatula. Sear until almost cooked through and starting to caramelize, 30 to 35 seconds. Flip and cook the squid for a few more seconds, then set it on the paper towel next to the radicchio.

Cut the mantles in half lengthwise, then cut into irregular-shaped pieces about 11/4 × 3/4 inch/3 × 2 cm. Remove the core from the cooked radicchio wedges. Tear out and discard the white centers from the leaves. Tear the red sections of the leaves into pieces no larger than 11/2 × 11/2 inches/3 × 3 cm.

Warm the squid stock in a small saucepan. Combine the squid and torn radicchio in a bowl and toss with a generous tablespoon of squid stock.

Place a scant teaspoon of scallion purée in the center of each serving plate and cover with about 6 pieces of cooked radicchio-folded to give the dish a bit of height-followed by 4 pieces of squid, then 3 pieces of raw radicchio. Drizzle with a bit of the stock and dust each serving with flake salt.

A FLAVORFUL BROTH OF MATSUTAKE MUSHROOMS WITH YELLOW FOOT CHANTERELLES

Walking along the shores of Lummi Island, you can see the San Juan archipelago to the west and the Cascade Mountains to the east. There are no sidewalks on Lummi, and the twenty-five-mile-per-hour speed limit is observed with a consistency surprising for a place with no police presence.

In the fall, the best walking is in the forest after the first cold rains of the season. Everyone in the kitchen heads into the woods to look for mushrooms. The forest in the autumn has a unique charm, with a low, gray light, the browns and yellows of fallen leaves, the deep greens of conifers, the earthy smells of leaf decay, and the damp forest duff.

This dish attempts to reflect the earthiness and delicacy of that forest scene. Steaming the yellow foot mushrooms gives them a perfect al dente texture. The matsutake produces a broth that is both bold and delicate and pairs well with the musky yellow foot chanterelles.

SERVES 4

FOR THE MATSUTAKE STOCK

5 ounces/150 g matsutake mushrooms, cut into 1/4-inch-/.5 cm-thick slices

Salt

Verjus

FOR THE STEAMED YELLOW FOOT CHANTERELLES

5 ounces/150 g yellow foot chanterelles

1 teaspoon/5 g high-quality unsalted butter

Salt

MATSUTAKE STOCK

Heat a water bath to 185°F/85°C. Place the matsutakes in a sous vide bag, vacuum seal them on high, and cook them at least 6 hours (we let them go overnight) in the water bath. Pour the stock this creates directly from the bag through a fine-mesh sieve and into a small saucepan, using the back of a spoon to press the mushrooms against the strainer wall to extract more stock. Season the stock with salt and verjus and discard the mushrooms.

STEAMED YELLOW FOOT CHANTERELLES

Wipe the yellow foot chanterelles clean with a damp paper towel, cut out any discolored parts, and trim the stems to about 2 inches/5 cm.

Place the butter, followed immediately by the yellow foot chanterelles, in a small risotto pan over medium heat and season lightly with salt. Stir and toss them constantly to keep them from browning, adding a few drops of water to the pan to kick-start the steaming process, if necessary. Remove them from the heat when they're softened but still firm enough to stand on their caps (think: al dente) and season with salt if needed.

TO SERVE

Warm the stock in the saucepan. Arrange 8 to 12 yellow foot chanterelles, caps down, in each small, warmed serving bowl. Spoon about 11/2 tablespoons of matsutake stock into each bowl.
