Pork Crackling with Bramley Apple Sauce

Serves 6- 10

1 kg pork rind, with a 5mm layer of fat left on

2-3 tbsp cornish sea salt

For the bramley apple sauce

1 bramley apple

1 tbsp caster sugar

Preheat the oven to 200°c. Cut the pork rind into rough strips, about 12cm long and 3cm wide. Place in a pan of cold water, bring to a boil and simmer for about 15 minutes. Drain well, place on a baking tray and scatter with 1 tbsp sea salt.

Roast for about 1 hour until the rind is crisp, turning and draining the fat from the tray every so often (save it to roast potatoes)

Meanwhile, make the apple sauce. Peel, quarter and core the apple, then cut into chunks and place in a heavy-based pan over a medium heat. Add the sugar and cook for about 10 minutes, stirring every so often, until the apple has broken up. Remove from the heat you can give the sauce a bit of a whisk to make it smoother 1f you wish, but i like it quite chunky. Transfer to individual serving bowls

Drain the pork in a colander and scatter over some more salt while hot. Serve the crackling on a platter, with the apple sauce as a dip on the side.

Oven-Roasted Garlic-Studded Ceps

Serves 4

Lkg firm medium ceps

6-8 garlic cloves, peeled and sliced 200g butter

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

2 tbsp chopped parsley

Preheat the oven to 220 c

Clean the ceps with a cloth and make about 5 incisions in each one with the point of a knife. Push a slice of garlic into each incisions

Melt half of the butter in a roasting tray add the ceps, turn to coat them in the butter and season generously with salt and pepper roast in the oven for 20-30 minutes until the ceps are iust tender, turning them every so often to ensure they cook and colour evenly

Add the rest of the butter and the chopped parsley, stir well and return to the oven for 2 3 minutes

Serve at once

Pickled Walnut Dressing

Serves 4-6

2-3 good-quality pickled walruts chopped plus 2 tbsp of their juice

4 5 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Whisk all of the ingredients together in a bowl or shake in a screw-topped jar or bottle, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste

Bramble Dressing

Serves 4 6

6-8 blackberries

1 tbsp cider vinegar

4 tbsp cold pressed rape seed oil

Salt & pepper

Crush blackberries, then whisk in vin/oil

Season with salt/pepper

Leave 30 min

Push through sive

Tewkesbury Mustard Dressing

Serves 4-6

L tbsp cider vinegar

L tbsp tewkesbury mustard

4 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Whisk the cider vinegar, mustard and rapeseed oil together in a bowl or shake in a screw-topped jar

Or bottle. Season the dressing with salt and pepper to taste

Honey and mustard dressing

Serves 4-6

2 tbsp cider vinegar

L tbsp clear honey

L tbsp wholegrain mustard

3 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

2- 3 tbsp vegetable or corn oil

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Whisk the cider vinegar, honey, mustard and oils together in a bowl or shake in a screw-topped jar or bottle. Season with salt and pepper to taste.

Mimosa dressing

Serves 4- 6

1/2 tbsp cider vinegar

Juice of 1/2 small lemon

1 garlic clove, peeled and halved

2 sprigs of tarragon

2 tbsp vegetable or corn oil

2-3 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Whisk the cider vinegar, lemon juice, garlic, tarragon and oils together or shake in a screw-topped jar or

Bottle. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Leave to infuse overnight and strain before using.

Blue cheese dressing

Serves 4-6

1 tbsp cider vinegar

1/2 tsp tewkesbury mustard

20g blue cheese

2 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

2 tbsp vegetable or corn oil

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Blend the cider vinegar, mustard, blue cheese and oils together in a blender and season with salt and pepper to taste. If the dressing is too thick, thin it with a little water

Fennel salad

Serves 4

2 young fennel bulbs, trimmed and green tops reserved

2-3 tbsp cider vinegar

Sea salt and freshly ground white pepper

2-3 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

Halve the fennel bulbs and slice them as thinly as possible, using a mandolin or very sharp knife. Tip into a bowl, add the cider vinegar and season

To taste. Toss to mix and leave for about an hour, stirring every so often

Chop the green fennel tops and add to the fennel with the rapeseed oil. Toss to combine, then taste and adjust the seasoning if necessary. Serve within a couple of hours.

Broad bean, pea and girolle salad

Serves 4

1 garlic clove, peeled and sliced

4 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

A few sprigs of tarragon, leaves removed and stalks reserved

Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper

200-250g girolles, cleaned

200g podded peas

200g podded broad beans

A pinch of caster sugar

1 tbsp cider vinegar

A handful of pea shoots (if available)

Put the garlic, rapeseed oil and tarragon stalks into a wide saucepan with about 3 tbsp water. Season well and bring to the boil. Add the girolles, cover with a lid and cook over a low heat for 3-4 minutes, turning them with a spoon every so often. Take off the heat, remove the lid and leave to cool a little. Cook the peas and broad beans separately in boiling salted water for a few minutes until just tender, adding a little caster sugar to the cooking water for the peas. Drain and remove the tough skins from any larger broad beans; leave small ones as they are. Remove the girolles from their liquid with a slotted

Spoon and set aside on a plate. To make the dressing, carefully pour off the oily part of the girolle cooking liquid into a bowl, leaving the watery liquid behind in the pan. Whisk the cider vinegar into the oil. Chop the tarragon leaves and stir these in, too. Check the seasoning. Toss the peas and broad beans in the dressing, then spoon onto serving plates. Scatter the girolles on top, along with a few pea shoots, if using. Spoon a little more dressing over the salad and serve.

Potato Salad with Bacon and Spring Onions

Serves 4 6

300-350g anya or other waxy potatoes (unpeeled)

Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper

1 medium onion, peeled and finely chopped

3 rashers of rind less streaky bacon finely chopped

1 tsp cumin seeds

3 tbsp cider vinegar

250ml chicken stock

3-4 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

4 spring onions, trimmed and finely chopped

Cook the potatoes in a pan of boiling salted water for 12-15 minutes until just tender. Drain and leave until cool enough to handle.

Meanwhile, put the onion, bacon, cumin seeds, cider vinegar and chicken stock into a saucepan and simmer gently until the liquid has reduced by about

Two-thirds, then take off the heat.

Peel the potatoes and cut into 3mm thick slices. Add to the onion and bacon mixture, along with the rapeseed oil. Toss gently to mix and season with salt

And pepper to taste.

Cover and leave to stand for up to an hour until ready to serve, giving an occasional stir to encourage the potatoes to absorb all the flavours. Just before

Serving, add the spring onions and toss gently

Summer Vegetable Broth

Serves 4

1.5 litres vegetable stock

1 small leek, trimmed, cut into lcm dice and washed

1 celery stick, peeled if necessary and cut into 5mm dice

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

150g podded broad beans

1oog podded peas

60g green or runner beans, cut into 5mm lengths

1 tbsp chopped parsley

1 tbsp chopped chives

Pour the vegetable stock into a large saucepan, add the leek and celery and bring to a simmer. Season lightly with salt and pepper and let simmer for

15 minutes.

Meanwhile, blanch the broad beans in boiling salted water for 3-4 minutes, then drain and refresh under the cold tap. Remove the tough skins from any larger

Broad beans; leave small ones as they are.

Add the peas and green beans to the simmering stock and cook for a further 10 minutes. Add the broad beans, chopped parsley and chives, and simmer for another 5 minutes. Re-season if necessary before serving.

Chilled Golden Beetroot Soup

Serves 4

400g medium yellow beetroot

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

1 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed or olive 011

1 small onion, peeled and rough ly chopped

1 litre vegetable stock

To finish

Cream , creme fraiche or soft goat's cheese

1 tbsp freshly grated horseradish

Cook the beetroot in a pan of salted water for about 1 hour until they feel tender when pierced with a knife. Drain and leave until cool enough to handle,

Then peel and roughly chop the beetroot.

Heat the oil in a large saucepan, add the onion, cover and cook gently for 3- 4 minutes to soften. Add the vegetable stock, bring to the boil, season with

A little salt and pepper and simmer for 30 minutes.

Add the beetroot, then remove from the heat. Puree in a blender until smooth, then pass the soup through a fine-meshed sieve into a large bowl. Re-season if necessary. Cool the soup down, then refrigerate for a few hours until well chilled or put it into the freezer if you're in a rush.

Serve in soup plates topped with a dollop of cream, creme fraiche or soft goat's cheese and a sprinkling of grated horseradish.

Chilled garden herb soup

Serves 4- 6

A good handful of parsley, washed

A good handful of chervil , washed

A good handful of basil, washed

1 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

1 small fennel bulb, roughly chopped

1 medium onion, peeled and roughly chopped

1 leek, t rimmed, roughly chopped and washed

1 tbsp plain flour

1. 5 litres vegetable stock

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

About 1og chives

A few mint leaves

To finish optional:

Goat's curd, soft goat's cheese or creme fralche

Finely chopped herbs, such as chervil, chives and

Parsley

Break off the thicker stalks from the parsley, chervil and basil and set aside; keep the leaves separate.

Heat the rapeseed oil 1n a large saucepan and add the fennel , onion and leek. Cover and cook gently for 4-5 minutes until soft, stirring every so often.

Add the flour and stir well, then gradually stir in the vegetable stock. Season to taste.

Bring to the boil, add the herb stalks and simmer gently for 20 minutes. Add the rest of the herbs, including the chives and mint leaves. Simmer for

2 minutes, no longer.

Puree the soup in a blender until smooth, then pass through a medium sieve (rather than a fine one, to let the herb bits th rough) into a bowl.

Set the bowl over another la rger bowl of iced water to cool the soup down as quickly as possible (this helps to preserve its green colour). Re-season if necessary.

Serve the soup straight from the fridge. If you like, top with a dollop of goat's curd, goat's cheese or creme fraiche and a sprinkling of chopped herbs

Horseradish soup

Serves 4

50g butter

1 onion, peeled and roughly chopped

1 large leek, t rimmed, roughly chopped and washed

1 tbsp plain flour

1.5 litres hot vegetable stock

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Loog freshly grated horseradish, or more to taste

1-2 tbsp double cream

Melt the butter in a large saucepan. Add the onion and leek, cover and cook gently without colouring for 3-4 minutes, stirring every so often, to soften stir in the flour and cook over a low heat for 30 seconds, then gradually stir in the vegetable stock. Bring to the boil, season and simmer for 30 minutes.

Add about two-thirds of the horseradish to the soup and simmer for 5 minutes, then take off the heat. Puree in a blender until smooth, then pass through

A fine-meshed sieve into a clean saucepan.

Taste for seasoning and the horseradish, adding more to taste. You don't need to blend the soup again the extra horseradish gives a nice te lure. Add the

Cream, bring back to a simmer and serve.

Ling with Creamed Peas, Leeks and Bacon

Serves 4

4 thick f illets of ling, about 200g each, with skin salt and freshly ground black pepper

L50g freshly podded peas (about 300g before podding). Or frozen peas

Loog butter

6 rashers of streaky bacon, derinded and finely chopped

1 medium or 2 small leeks, trimmed, cut into rough 1 cm squares and washed

200ml double cream

2 tbsp vegetable oil

Season the ling fillets with salt and pepper. Add the peas to a pan of salted water and simmer for 4-5 minutes or until tender, then drain.

In the meantime, melt half of the butter in a heavybased saucepan and add the bacon and leek. Cover and cook gently over a medium-low heat for 3-4

Minutes, stirring every so often, until the leek is soft.

Roughly chop the peas and add them to the leek and bacon with the cream. Season with salt and pepper and simmer for a few minutes until the cream has

Reduced and is just coating the peas.

Meanwhile, heat the oil in a non-stick frying pan over a medium-high heat and add the ling fillets, skin side down. Cook for 3-4 minutes until nicely

Coloured, then turn the fillets and add the rest of the butter to the pan. Fry for a couple of minutes until the fish is just cooked through.

To serve, spoon the creamed peas, leeks and bacon onto warmed plates and place the fish on top.

Thorn back ray with fried egg, capers and anchovies

Serves 4

4 fillets from a medium ray wing, about 170g each salt and freshly ground black pepper

2-3 tbsp plain flour

1 free-range large egg, beaten

50-60g fresh white breadcrumbs

2-3 tbsp vege table oil

1oog butter

4 free-range medium eggs

2 tbsp large capers

1 tbsp chopped parsley

8 anchovy fillets, halved lengthways

Warm the oven to its lowest setting. Season the ray fillets with salt and pepper. Have 3 dishes ready, one with the flour, one with the beaten egg and the third with the breadcrumbs. One at a time, coat the fish fillets in the flour, shaking off any excess, then pass through the egg and finally coat in the breadcrumbs.

You will probably need to cook the fish in a couple of batches. Heat the oil in a large frying pan and fry the ray fillets for 2-3 minutes on each side, adding a knob of butter once you've turned them over. Keep warm in a low oven.

Melt a little more butter in a non-stick frying pan and gently fry the eggs for a couple of minutes until the white has just set.

Heat the remaining butter in a pan until foaming, add the capers and chopped parsley and take off the heat. Lay a ray fillet on each warmed plate, place

A fried egg on top and arrange the anchovy strips around the egg white. Spoon the butter and capers over the egg and serve.

Green Sauce

Serves 4

30g mint leaves

30g parsley leaves

30g basil leaves

30g capers, rinsed

1 garlic clove, peeled and crushed, or a few wild garlic leaves

2 tsp tewkesbury or english mustard

About 1ooml cold-pressed rapeseed oil

Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper

Put the herb leaves, capers, garlic and mustard into a blender with most of the rapeseed oil and process to a fairly course puree season with salt and pepper to taste and add a little more oil if the sauce seems a little dry.

Chop House Butter

Makes 300g

1 tbsp cold pressed rapeseed oil

1 red onion, peeled and finely chopped

1 garlic clove, peeled and crushed

1 tsp coarsely ground black pepper

1/2 tbsp thyme leaves, chopped

1/2 tbsp freshly grated horseradish

Looml red wine

250g butter, softened

1 tbsp henderson's relish or worcestershire sauce

1 tbsp hp sauce

1 tbsp tewkesbury or english mustard

1 tsp gentleman's relish

2 tbsp chopped parsley

1/2 tbsp chopped tarragon

Heat the rapeseed oil in a pan and add the onion, garlic and pepper cook gently for 2-3 minutes to soften, then tip into a bowl. Add all of the other

Ingredients and mix well.

Spoon the flavoured butter onto a sheet of cling film or greaseproof paper and shape into a cylinder, about 3cm in diameter, sealing it in the film or paper

Refrigerate or freeze until required.

Just slice the chilled butter as you need it and serve directly on steaks and chops; or cut off as much frozen butter as you need and slice it before serving

Bearnaise Sauce

Serves 4- 6

1 tbsp white wine or cider vinegar

1 small shallot, peeled and roughly chopped

A few sprigs of tarragon, leaves picked, stalks reserved

A few sprigs of chervil, leaves picked, stalks reserved

5 black peppercorns

200g unsalted butter

3 small egg yolks

Salt and freshly ground white pepper

A little lemon 1uice (optional)

Put the vinegar, 2 tbsp water, the shallot, herb stalks and peppercorns in a saucepan and simmer for a minute or until the liquid has reduced to 2 tsp. Strain through a sieve and leave to cool.

Melt the butter in a saucepan over a low heat and let bubble very gently for 3-4 minutes. Remove from the heat, leave to cool a little, then pour off the pure liquid butter into a bowl, leaving the milky whey behind. Discard the whey. (clarifying the butter in this way helps to keep the sauce thick.)

Put the egg yolks into a small heatproof bowl (or a double boiler if you have one) with half of the vinegar reduction and set over a pan of gently simmering water. Whisk the mixture until it begins to thicken and become frothy. Slowly trickle in two-thirds of the clarified butter, whisking continuously - preferably using an electric hand whisk. If the butter is added too quickly, the sauce is liable to separate.

Now taste the sauce and add a little more, or all, of the remaining vinegar reduction. Then whisk in the rest of the butter. The vinegar should just cut the oiliness of the butter sauce; don't add too much. Season with salt and pepper to taste.

Cover the bowl and leave in a warm, not hot, place until needed, but no longer than 20 minutes.

To serve, chop the tarragon and chervil leaves and stir into the sauce check the seasoning and add a squeeze of lemon juice, to taste. Whisk lightly

Wild garlic sauce

Serves 4

2-3 handfuls of wild garlic leaves. Washed and dried

1- 2 tsp tewkesbury or english mustard

1oo- l50ml cold-pressed rapeseed oil

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Put the wild garlic leaves. Mustard and looml rapeseed oil into a blender and process as smoothly or as coarsely as you wish. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Add as much of the extra oil as you need to get the desired consistency.

Roast Chicken with New Season's Garlic Sauce

Serves 3-4

1 free-range chicken, about l.5kg, with livers sea salt and freshly ground black pepper a few sprigs each of thyme and rosemary, a few generous knobs of butter

For the stuffing

60g butter

1 medium onion , peeled and finely chopped

Loog chicken livers, chopped

2 tsp thyme leaves

80- 1oog fresh white breadcrumbs

2 tbsp chopped parsley

To serve

A little chopped parsley

Baked new season's garlic sauce

Straw potatoes

Preheat the oven to 200°c. Season the chicken inside and out. Put the herbs into the cavity. Rub butter all over the breast and legs.

For the stuffing, melt the butter in a pan. Add the onion, livers and thyme, season and cook over a medium heat for 2-3 minutes. Off the heat, mix in the breadcrumbs, parsley and seasoning. Either use to stuff your bird or cook separately in an oven proof dish or wrapped in foil for the last 30-40 minutes.

Put the chicken into a large roasting tin and roast in the oven, basting regularly and adding the livers to the roasting tin for the last 6 minutes or so. Test the chicken after 1 1/4 hours by inserting a skewer into the thickest part of the thigh. The juices should run clear; if not roast for a little longer

Lift the chicken onto a warmed platter and rest in a warm place for 15 minutes spnnkle with chopped parsley and serve with the roasted livers, stuffing, garlic sauce and straw potatoes.

Baked New Season's Garlic Sauce

Serves 4

4 heads of new season's garlic a few sprigs of curly parsley

1/2 tbsp dijon mustard, or more to taste

2-3 tbsp duck fat, warmed (or pan juices from a roasted chicken)

70g fresh white breadcrumbs a ltttle milk to mix

Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper

Preheat the oven to 200 c. Wrap the garlic bulbs in foil and bake them in the oven for 1hour. Unwrap and leave until cool enough to handle, then peel away any tough outer skin.

Put the garlic into a blender with the parsley, mustard, warm duck fat (or chicken pan juices) and breadcrumbs and blend until smooth add enough milk to give the sauce a thick pouring consistency and season with salt/pepper

Chop House Sauce

Serves 4

A couple of knobs of butter

L small onion, peeled and finely chopped

L garlic clove, peeled and crushed a good pinch of cayenne pepper

Ltsp plain flour

1/2 tsp tomato pure

1 tbsp cider vinegar

Ltsp redcurrant jelly

1 tsp english mustard

250ml hot beef stock

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

1 large dill pickle or a few gherkins, finely diced

Melt the butter in a heavy-based pan and add the onion, garlic and cayenne pepper cook gently for 2-3 minutes to soften, then stir in the flour, followed

By the tomato puree, cider vinegar, redcurrant jelly and mustard.

Chicken and Lobster Pie

Serves 4

2 cooked lobsters, about 500g each

500g boned and skinned free-range chicken thighs

1 tbsp chopped parsley

1/2 tbsp chopped tarragon leaves

350-400g ready-made al l-butter puff pastry

Plain flour for dusting

1 free-range egg, beaten

For the lobster sauce

1 tbsp vege table oil

Reserved lobster shells

4 shallots, peeled and roughly chopped

1 garlic clove, peeled and chopped

60g butter

60g plain flour

A good pinch of saffron strands

A few sprigs of tarragon

1/2 tbsp tomato puree

60ml white wine

500ml hot fish stock

500ml hot ch icken stock

400ml double cream

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

1- 2 tsp cornflour (if needed)

Remove the meat from the lobster tails and claws and cut roughly into lcm pieces. Reserve one lobster head (if making a large pie). Break the rest of the shells up a bit, using a heavy knife. Cut the chicken thighs in half, or into thirds if large. Cover and refrigerate the lobster and chicken meat.

To make the sauce, heat the oil in a heavy based saucepan and fry the lobster shells, shallots and garlic over a medium heat for about 5 minutes until they begin to colour lightly add the butter and, once melted, stir in the flour. Add the saffron, tarragon and tomato puree, then gradually stir in the white wine and the hot fish and chicken stocks.

Bring to the boil, lower the heat and simmer for about 30 minutes until the sauce has reduced by about half, then add the cream. Season lightly with salt and pepper, bring back to the boil and simmer very gently for about 20 minutes until the sauce has reduced by half again. (a simmer plate or heat diffuser mat is useful here.)

Strain the sauce through a colander into a clean pan, movingthe shells with a spoon to ensure all the sauce goes through.

Tip about one-tenth of the shells into a blender and add about a cupful of the strained sauce. Blend until smooth,then strain through a fine· meshed sieve rnto the sauce in the pan.

Bring the sauce back to the boil, add the chicken and simmer for 5 minutes. The sauce should be a thick coating consistency by now; if not, simmer

A little longer (or dilute a little cornflour in water and stir into the sauce) leave to cool.

Stir the lobster and chopped parsley and tarragon into the cooled sauce adjust the seasoning if necessary.fill a large pre dishor 4 1ndiv1dual ones with the mixture.

Roll out the pastry on a lightly floured surface to a 5mm thickness.trim to about 2cm larger all round than the pie dish (or cut discs large enough to cover individual dishes). Brush the edges of the pastry with a little of the beaten egg.lay the pastry over the filling, pressing the egg-washed sides onto the rim of the dish(es).

If making a large pie, cut a cross in the centre and insert the reserved lobster head, so 1t sits proud. Cut a small slit in the top of 1nd1v1dual pies to allow steam to escape.leave to rest in a cool place for 30 minutes.

Preheat the oven to 200°c. Brush the pastry lid with beaten egg and bake the pie for 40-50 minutes or until golden brown (allow 1o-15 minutes less for individual pies). Let the pie stand for a few minutes before serving

Mixed Grill of Pork with Crab Apple Sauce

Serves 4

L50g minced pork (with about 20% fat)

Loog black pudding, finely chopped

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

200-250g pork loin fillet or tenderloin

200-250g shoulder or neck fillet of pork

2 pig's kidneys, trimmed

L50g pig's liver

Vegetable oil for brushing

A generous knob of butter

A few sprigs of rosemary

For the crab apple sauce

300- 350g crab apples

1 tbsp caster sugar, or more to taste

First make the crab apple sauce. Remove the stalks from the apples and wash them well put them into a heavy- based saucepan with ltbsp sugar. Cover and cook for 10-15 minutes, stirring every so often until the apples are soft. If there's a lot of liquid, remove the lid and boil rapidly until it dries out enough, takingcare that it doesn't splatter. Transfer to a bowl and taste for sweetness, adding a little more sugar if needed.spoon into individual serving bowls and let cool to room temperature

In a bowl, mix the minced pork with the black pudding and season well with salt and pepper divide into 4 portions, flatten and shape into patties cover and place in the fridge. Cut the pork loin into 4 similar-sized chunks; do the same with the pork shoulder, kidneys and liver.season all of the meat.

Heat a ridged griddle pan or heavy-based frying pan and lightly oil it. Cook the pork patties and pieces of meat and offal 1n batches as necessary, for about 3-4 minutes on each side, keeping them slightly pink.the liver and kidney will need less time, just 1-2 minutes.

Heat the butter and rosemary in a separate pan until foaming and remove from the heat. Thread the meat onto skewers or simply arrange on warmed plates. Trickle the butter over the meat and serve. With the crab apple sauce.

Mutton Chop Curry

For the roasted curry spice mix

1 tbsp fenugreek seeds

1 tbsp fennel seeds

1 tbsp fenugreek leaves

1 tbsp cumin seeds

1- 2 tbsp dried chilli flakes

1/2 tbsp caraway seeds

1/2 tbsp nigella seeds

1 tbsp turmeric

8 cloves

1 tbsp mustard seeds

1/2 tbsp cardamom seeds (from green cardamom pods)

1 tbsp ground cumin

1 tsp ground cinnamon

1 tbsp ground coriander

To prepare the spice mix, grind all of the spices, except the ground cumin, cinnamon and coriander, in a spice grinder or with a mortar and pestle. Then mix them with the ready-ground spices and sprinkle into a heavy-based frying pan. Cook over a medium heat, stirring constantly, until they turn dark brown; don't let them burn. Tip onto a plate and leave to cool, then store in a sealed jar until needed

Serves 4

For the curry

12 mutton chops or cutlets

2-3 tbsp natural yoghurt

75g ghee (or half oil, half butter mix)

2 medium red onions, peeled and finely chopped

3 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed

A small piece of fresh root ginger, peeled and finely grated

A good pinch of saffron strands

A good handful of curry leaves

2 tbsp roasted curry spice mix (see left)

1 tbsp tomato puree

500ml lamb or beef stock

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

A few sprigs of coriander, roughly chopped

1 tbsp vegetable oil

Coat the mutton chops with the yoghurt and leave to marinate for a couple of hours.

Meanwhile, heat two thirds of the ghee in a pan and gently cook the onions with the garlic, ginger, saffron and a few of the curry leaves for 3-4 minutes until softened. Add the roasted curry spice mix and tomato puree and stir well. Pour in the stock and bring to the boil, then lower the heat and let the sauce simmer for 20 minutes.

Transfer the sauce to a blender and process until smooth,then strain through a fine-meshed sieve into a clean pan, pushing as much through as possible. Return to a low heat and simmer until the sauce has reduced and thickened .

Heat the remaining ghee in a frying pan.remove excess yoghurt from the chops and season them, then fry until lightly coloured on both sides. Pour the sauce over the chops and simmer gently for 15-20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add the coriander and simmer for another couple of minutes.

Meanwhile, heat the oil in a frying pan and briefly fry the rest of the curry leaves.scatter over the curry and serve with basmati rice.

Lamb Chops with Cucumber and Mint

Serves 4

2 cucumbers

8 lamb loin chops, about 120-150g each

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Vegetable or corn oil for brushing

2 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

2 large shallots, peeled, halved and thinly sliced

A small handful of mint leaves, shredded

Cut the cucumbers in half lengthways and scoop out the seeds with a teaspoon. Cut each half on an angle into 1-2cm thick slices.

Heat a ridged griddle pan or heavy-based fryingpan over a medium-high heat. Season the lamb chops with salt and pepper, brush with oil and cook for about 5 minutes on each side, keeping them pink.

Meanwhile, heat the rapeseed oil in another frying pan and add the shallots.fry,stirring, for a minute, then add the cucumber slices. Season with salt

And pepper and saute over a fairly high heat for 2-3 minutes until tender. Take off the heat and stir in the shredded mint.

Divide the cucumber between warmed plates and place the lamb chops on top to serve

Lamb's sweetbreads with runner beans. Bacon and mushrooms

Serves 4

300-400g lamb's sweetbreads

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

250-300g runner beans, trimmed

1oog butter

120g piece of unsmoked streaky bacon, cut into 5mm dice

L50g g1rolles or other seasonal wild mushrooms, cleaned

1 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

For the dressing

1 small red onion, peeled and finely chopped

3 tbsp cider vinegar

1 tsp tewkesbury mustard

4 tbsp cold -pressed rapeseed oil

Pul the sweetbreads into a pan of cold salted water. Bring to the boil and lower the heat. Simmer for 2-3 minutes, then drain and leave to cool.

Meanwhile, for the dressing, put the red onion, cider vinegar and 2 tbsp water into a small pan and simmer for 2-3 minutes or untilthe liquid has reduced by half remove from the heat and whisk in the mustard and rapeseed oil. Season with salt and pepper and set aside.

Shred the runner beans lengthways on a slight angle very finely. Add to a saucepan of boilingsalted water and cook for 30 seconds, then drain in a co1ander. Refresh briefly under the cold tap, drain and pat dry with kitchen paper.

Trim the blanched sweetbreads of any fat and membrane, then season them. Melt half the butter in a frying pan and cook the sweetbreads .stirring frequently, over a fairly high heat for 4-5 minutes until golden. Drain on kitchen paper and keep warm

Melt the rest of the butter in the frying pan add the bacon pieces and fry over a medium heat for 2-3 minutes,then add the mushrooms cook for 4-5 minutes until tender, turning them every so often and lightly seasoning them

Meanwhile, warm the runner beans in 1tbsp rapeseed oil, then toss in the dressing and season

To serve, divide the runner beans between warmed serving plates and scatter the sweetbreads and mushrooms over the top. Serve at once

Crosscut Ribs Baked in a Barbecue Sauce

Serves 4

12 16 cross-cut beef ribs

1-2 tbsp vegetable oil

For the barbecue sauce

A couple of generous knobs of butter

4 large shallots, peeled and finely chopped

4 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed

200ml cider

200ml beef stock

60-80g tomato ketchup

60-80g hp sauce or oxford sauce

1/2 tbsp tewkesbury mustard

1 tbsp clear honey

1 small chilli, finely chopped

4 tbsp tomato puree

40ml henderson's relish or worcestershire sauce

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Preheat the oven to l50°c. For the barbecue sauce, simply mix all the ingredients together in a bowl, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste.

Heat 1tbsp oil in a large, heavy-based frying pan over a medium-high heat. When hot, fry the ribs in batches for 2-3 minutes on each side until they are nicely coloured, adding more oil to the pan as necessary. Once browned, transfer the ribs to a large ovenproof dish.

Pour the barbecue sauce over the ribs and toss to coat all over. Cook in the oven for about an hour or until the ribs are tender and glazed, and the meat is 1ust falling away from the bone.

Fried squash or courgette flowers

Serves 4

8 large courgette, squash or pumpkin flowers, with their stalks

120g self-raising flour, plus extra for dusting

20-30g mature cheddar cheese, finely grated

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Vegetable or corn oil for deep-frying

Check that the flowers are clean and free from insects. To make the batter, place the flour in a bowl and slowly whisk in 200ml ice-cold water to form a thickish batter. Add the grated cheese, season with salt and pepper and give it a final whisk.

Heat an 8cm depth of oil in a deep-fat fryer or other suitable deep, heavy pan to 160-180°c, or until a little batter dropped into the oil turns golden brown after a minute or so.

Have a shallow bowl of flour ready. One at a time, dip the flowers into the flour, shaking off any excess, then dip into the batter to coat and drop into the

Hot oil. Deep-fry 3 or 4 flowers at a time, moving them around in the oil with a spoon, for a couple of minutes until they are crisp and light golden.

Remove the courgette flowers with a slotted spoon and put on a plate lined with kitchen paper to drain. Season lightly with salt and serve.

Autumn greens with wild mushrooms

Serves 4

1 head of green cabbage, or a mixture of greens

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

1oog butter

1 small onion, peeled and finely chopped

2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed

120-150g wild mushrooms, cleaned

Cut the cabbage or greens roughly into 2-3cm chunks and wash well. Add to a pan of boiling salted water, bring back to the boil and cook for 3-5 minutes until just tender. Drain thoroughly in a colander.

Meanwhile, melt half of the butter in a frying pan and gently cook the onion and garlic for 3-4 minutes to soften.

Add the rest of the butter to the pan. Once melted, add the mushrooms and cook over a medium heat for 4-5 minutes until tender, turning frequently and seasoning after a couple of minutes.

Add the cabbage to the mushrooms and toss them together over the heat until hot. Check the seasoning and serve at once.

Scrumpy battered onions

Serves 4

1 medium yellow onion, peeled

4 spring onions, trimmed

1 medium red onion, peeled

80g self-raising flour

About 100-120ml scrumpy or cider to mix

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

Vegetable or corn oil for deep-frying

Plain flour for dusting

Onion salt to serve

Cut the yellow onion into 5mm thick rings;cut each spring onion into 4 lengths; halve the red onion and cut into 5mm thick half-moon slices. Separate the slices and rings.

To make the batter, put the flour into a bowl and whisk in enough of the cider to make a smooth, thick batter. Season with salt and pepper. Leavelo rest for about 30 minutes.

Heat an 8cm depth of oil in a deep-fat fryer or other suitable deep,heavy pan to 160-180°c. Season the flour for dusting well.

To test that the batter is the correct thickness,dust a piece of onion in flour, then coat in batter and

Immerse in the hot 011. The batter should adhere and the onionshould cook up crisp; if not, adjust the batter with more cider or flour.

You'll need to cook the onions in 2 or 3 batches. Toss the first batch in the flour, shaking off excess, then dip into the batter to coat and drop into the hot oil. Deep fry for about 3-4 minutes until nicely coloured, turning them occasionally with a slotted spoon. Drain on kitchen paper, then scatter with onion salt. Eat straight away or keep hot while you cook the rest, then serve at once.

Cauliflower cheese

Serves 4

1 medium cauliflower

500ml milk

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

50g butter

50g plain flour

1 small bay leaf

200ml double cream

Loog mature cheddar cheese, grated

1 large egg yolk

Preheat the oven to 200 c. Cut the cauliflower into large florets. Pour the milk into a saucepan, season and bring to the boil add the cauliflower florets and cook for 7-8 minutes or until just tender. Drain in a colander over a bowl, reserving the milk.

Melt the butter in a heavy-based saucepan, then stir in the flour and cook, stirring,over a low heat for 30 seconds. Gradually whisk in the milk, keeping the mixture smooth. Add the bay leaf, re-season and simmer very gently for about 15 minutes, stirring from time to time.

Add the cream and simmer for a further 5 minutes the sauce should be quite thick by now: if not simmer gently until it is a thick coating consistency. Remove the bay leaf, then stir in three quarters of the grated cheese and the egg yolk.

Mix the cauliflower with the sauce and transfer to an ovenproof serving dish. Scatter the rest of the cheese over the surface and bake in the oven for about 15 minutes or until nicely browned

Runner bean puree

Serves 4-6

500g runner beans, trimmed

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

A few knobs of butter

Roughly chop the runner beans. Bring a pan of salted water to the boil. Drop in the beans and cook for 5-7 minutes until iust tender, then drain

Tip the beans into a blender or food processor and blend to a puree  as coarse or smooth as you like you may need to add a little water.

Return the puree to the pan and place over a low heat. Add the butter, season with salt and pepper to taste, then serve.

Minted peas with their shoots

Serves 4-6

300 400g freshly podded peas (about 1 kg before podding)

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

1 1/2 tsp caster sugar

A handful of mint sprigs, leaves stripped, stalks reserved

60g butter

A couple of handfuls of pea shoots

For the peas, bring a pan of salted water to the boil with the sugar and mint stalks added tip in the peas and simmer for 4-5 minutes or until tender. Then drain and discard the mint stalks.

Melt the butter in a wide pan add the pea shoots quickly season with salt and pepper and toss for a few seconds until they are just wilted.

Tip in the cooked peas, toss to combine and re-season if necessary before serving

Creamed spinach

Serves 4-6

750-800g spinach, thick stalks removed and washed

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

200ml double cream

Bring a pan of salted water to the boil. Plunge in the spinach leaves and cook for 2-3 minutes until tender. Drain in a colander, refresh under the cold tap and squeeze out any excess water.

Tip the spinach into a food processor and blend as smoothly or as coarsely as you wish. You can take it to this stage in advance if you like, then finish at the last minute.

Simmer the cream in a saucepan until reduced by about half, then stir in the spinach and season with salt and pepper to taste. Cook over a low heat for a minute or so, stirring every so often, until the spinach is hot. Serve immediately

Sprouting broccoli with her bs and hazelnuts

Serves 4

350-400g tender sprouting broccoli

For the crust

40-50g fresh white breadcrumbs

50g hazelnuts, chopped

1 tbsp cold-pressed rapeseed oil

A couple of generous knobs of butter

4 shallots, peeled and finely chopped

2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed

2-3 tbsp finely chopped mixed herbs, such

As parsley, chervil, tarragon and chives

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the crust, preheat the grill to medium. In a bowl, toss the breadcrumbs and chopped hazelnuts together with the rapeseed oil and scatter on a baking tray. Toast under the grill for 3-5 minutes until golden,turningonce or twice to ensure the mixture colours evenly.

Meanwhile, melt the butter in a pan and gently cook the shallots and garlic for a few minutes until softened. Stir in the breadcrumbs and herbs until well mixed and season with salt and pepper

When ready to serve, cook the broccoli 1n boiling salted water for about 4-5 minutes, so that it is still just a little firm to the bite. Drain thoroughly and transfer to a warmed serving dish. Scatter the breadcrumb mixture over the top and serve.

Baked parsnips with lancashire cheese

Serves 4 6

750g parsnips, peeled

400ml double cream

400ml milk

A good pinch of freshly grated nutmeg

2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed

Salt and freshly ground black pepper

150g lancashire cheese, grated

2 tbsp fresh white breadcrumbs

1 tbsp chopped parsley

Preheat the oven to 160 c. Cut the parsnips into rough 2-3cm chunks.

Pour the cream and milk into a saucepan, add the nutmeg and garlic, and season generously with salt and pepper. Bring to the boil, then turn off the heat and leave to cool slightly.

Put the parsnips into a shallow ovenproof (gratin type) dish and mix with all but 1tbsp of the cheese. Pour the cream mixture over the top.

Stand the dish in a roasting tray and pour in enough boiling water to come halfway up the side of the dish (to create a bain-marie). Cook in the oven for about an hour until the parsnips are cooked through.

Preheat the grill to medium. Mix the breadcrumbs with the chopped parsley and remaining 1tbsp grated cheese scatter over the parsnip bake and place under the grill for a few minutes until golden. Serve at once, or cover with foil and leave in a low oven until ready to serve.

Straw potatoes

Serves 4

4 large chipping potatoes, such as yukon gold, spunta or mans piper, peeled

Vegetable or corn oil for deep-trying

10 garlic cloves, peeled and thinly sliced

Sea salt

Using a mandolin with a shredding attachment or a sharp knife, cut the potatoes into long matchsticks, about 3mm thick. Wash them well in a couple of changes of cold water to remove excess starch, then drain and pat dry on a clean tea towel.

Heat an 8cm depth of oil in a deep-fat fryer or other suitable deep, heavy pan to 120-140 c. Blanch the matchstick potatoes in manageable batches (a couple of handfuls at a time) for 2-3 minutes, then remove with a slotted spoon and drain in a colander

Increase the temperatur e of the oil to 160-180-c and re-fry the potatoes with the garlic slices in batches, moving them around in the pan, until golden and crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper. Sprinkle with sea salt and serve immediately.

Alternatively, you can keep the straw potatoes warm, uncovered, on a baking tray in a low oven until ready to serve. They should stay crisp but if not you can briefly re-fry them in hot oil to crisp them up again.

Chocolate mousse

Serves 4-6

250g good-quality dark chocolate, about 70% cocoa solids, broken into small pieces

50g unsalted butter, softened

6 very fresh free-range medium eggs, separated, plus 3 extra egg whites

40g caster sugar

Chocolate curls (shaved from a block of chocolate with a peeler) to finish

Melt the chocolate rn a heatproof bowl over a pan of simmering water, stirring every so often and making sure the bowl isn't touching the water. Remove from the heat and beat in the butter, using a whisk or spoon, until smooth beat the egg yolks in another bowl and set aside.

In a clean, grease-free bowl , whrsk the egg whites until frothy but not stiff, using a mixer or an electric whisk on a medium-high speed. Add half the sugar

And continue whisking on a low setting until stiff. Add the rest of the sugar and whisk until the egg whites stiffen up further. Now fold in the beaten egg yolks using a metal spoon

Carefully stir half of this into the chocolate mixture, using a whisk, then fold in the rest with a large spoon until evenly combined. Pour into a large serving dish and leave to set for a couple of hours, or overnight.

To serve, scoop a portion of mousse onto each serving plate and finish with chocolate curls

Pears in perry

Serves 4

4 firm pears

500ml perry

4 cloves

A small piece of cinnamon stick

6 black peppercorns

2 tbsp caster sugar

A couple of handfuls of blackberries (optional)

Clotted cream or ice cream to serve

Peel the pears, leaving the stalks intact, and cut a thin sliver off the base of each one so they will stand upright.

Put the perry, cloves, cinnamon, peppercorns and caster sugar into a heavy-based saucepan and add the pears. Lay a piece of greaseproof paper over the fruit. Bring to a simmer and poach gently for about 45 minutes until the pears are soft and tender but still holding their shape.

Lift out the poached pears. Using a slotted spoon. And set aside on a plate.

Continue to simmer the liquor in the pan until 1t has reduced by about two thirds and t111ckened return the pears to the liquor and leave to cool

To serve, stand each pear 1n a deep scrvrng plate and spoon over some of the reduced liquor. Add a few blackberries, if using, and a scoop of clotted cream

Or ice cream.

Rhubarb crumble and custard ice cream

Serves 6- 8

400ml creamy milk, such as gold top, guernsey or jersey

1 1/2 vanilla pods or 1/2 tsp vanilla extract

6 free-range medium egg yolks

L50g caster sugar

400ml jersey or clotted cream, or a mixture

For the rhubarb

600g rhubarb, trimmed

200g caster sugar

1 tsp cornflour, mixed with 2 tbsp cold water

For the crumble topping

160g plain flour

80g cold butter, cut into small pieces

90g soft brown sugar

50g oats

60-80g shelled nuts, such as walnuts, hazelnuts

And/or almonds, coarsely chopped

3 tbsp pumpkin seeds

Pour the milk into a saucepan split the vanilla pods lengthways, scrape out the seeds with a knife and add them to the milk with the empty pods. (if using vanilla extract, don't add it yet.) Slowly bring the milk to the boil, then take the pan off the heat and remove the empty vanilla pods

Whisk the egg yolks and sugar together in a bowl, then pour on the hot milk, whisking as you do so. Return to the pan and cook gently over a low heat, stirringconstantly with a wooden spoon, for about 5 minutes untilthe custard thickens; don't let it boil. Pour into a bowl and whisk in the cream (add the

Vanilla extract now, if using.) Cover the surface with a sheet of greaseproof paper to prevent a skin forming and leave to cool

Preheat the oven to 190"c/gas mark 5 . Cut the rhubarb roughly into 2cm pieces, place 1n an ovenproof dish and scatter with the sugar. Cover with foil and cook in the oven for about 30 minutes until tender. Pour the juice from the rhubarb into a saucepan and bring to a simmer stir the blended cornflour into the liquor and cook, stirring, for a minute or so to thicken, then stir back into the rhubarb.leave to cool.

To make the crumble, put the flour into a bowl and rub in the butter until the mixture 1s the texture of breadcrumbs. Mix in the sugar,followed by the oats, nuts and pumpkin seeds. Scatter on a baking tray and bake for about 15 minutes until golden set aside to cool.

Churn the custard in an ice-cream machine until thickened and almost frozen to the right consistency for serving, then fold in the rhubarb and half of the crumble mixture. Transfer to a suitable container and place in the freezer until needed. Keep the rest of the crumble in an airtight container

To serve,scoop the ice cream into glass bowls and scatter the reserved crumble on top.

Apple bread pudding

Serves 6-8

500ml medium cider

200g caster sugar, plus extra for dusting

1h tsp ground cinnamon

1h tsp ground mixed spice

60g sultanas

60g raisins

Grated zest of 1/2 orange

500g brown or white bread, crusts removed

4 medium crisp dessert apples, such as cox's

50g butter

4 free-range medium eggs, beaten

Thick jersey cream or ice cream to serve

Put the cider, sugar, spices, sultanas, raisins and orange zest into a saucepan and bring to the boil. Meanwhile, break the bread into small pieces and place in a bowl tip the cider mixture over the bread and stir to mix. Cover the bowl with cling film and leave to stand overnight.

The next day, peel, quarter, core and slice the apples.

Melt the butter in a large frying pan and fry the apples over a medium heat, stirring occasionally, for 3-4 minutes until lightly coloured. Set aside to cool.

Preheat the oven to 180°c. Line the base and sides or a 20cm square baking tin, about 6cm deep, with greaseproof paper.

Fold the beaten eggs into the bread mixture, then fold in the cooled apples.spoon the mixture into the prepared tin and bake for about 30-40 minutes until firm dust the top with caster sugar while still hot. Serve with cream or ice cream

Roast plums with cobnuts and clotted cream

Serves 4

12- 18 victoria or other plums, depending on size

6 tbsp caster sugar

For the topping

2 tbsp plain flour

40g hard butter, chopped into small pieces

1/2 tbsp brown sugar

4 tbsp oats

24-30 cobnuts, shelled and roughly chopped

To serve

Clotted cream or thick jersey cream

Preheat the oven to 200 c. First make the topping:put the flour and butter into a bowl and rub together with your fingers to a breadcrumb-like consistency. Stir in the brown sugar, then mix in the oats and cobnuts. Spread out on a baking tray.

Halve the plums, place cut side up on another baking tray and sprinkle with the caster sugar

Place both or the trays in the oven and bake for 15-20 minutes until the plums are lightly coloured and softened and the topping 1s golden; you may need to take the toppingout before the plums

Leave the plums to cool slightly, then transfer them to individual serving bowls and spoon over the cooking juices.scatter over the cobnut topping and top with a generous dollop of cream

Individual bramble  pies

Serves 4

For the pastry

11og butter, softened , plus extra to grease

135g caster sugar

225g strong plain flour, plus extra for dusting

A pinch of salt

1/2 tsp baking powder

125ml double cream

For the filing

800g blackberries

L 20g caster sugar

1 tsp arrowroot or cornflour, mixed with 1 tbsp

Cold water

To finish

1 free-range medium egg white, mixed with 1 tbsp caster sugar

Icing sugar for dusting

To serve

Thick cream or creme fraiche

First make the pastry. In a food processor or electric mixer, or by hand, cream the butter and sugar together untilsmooth. Sift the flour, salt and baking powder together and stir into the creamed mixture until evenly combined. Now slowly incorporate the cream until well mixed.

Knead the dough lightly, then divide into 2 portions, one slightly bigger than the other. Shape each into a ball, wrap in clingfilm and refrigerate for 30 minutes.

Lightly butter four locm individual tart tins, about 3cm deep. Roll out the slightly larger ball of pastry on a lightly floured surface to about a 3mm thickness. Using an l8cm plate as a guide,cut out 4 discs. Use to line the tart tins, leaving about 5mm pastry overhanging the edge.

Roll out the other portion of pastry and cut 4 discs, a little more than locm in diameter, for the pie lids. Place on a tray. Put the lined tart tins and pastry discs in the fridge and leave to rest for 1hour.

Meanwhile, to make the filling, put 200g of the blackberries into a saucepan with the sugar and 1 tbsp water. Bringto a simmer and cook gently for 3-4 minutes. Add the blended arrowroot and simmer for another 2-3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Strain through a fine-meshed sieve into a bowl and leave to cool a little, then mix in the rest of the blackberries.

Preheat the oven to 200°c. Remove the pastry from the fridge. Using a slotted spoon, fill the pastry cases with the blackberry filling. Moisten with the juice from the fruit , but don't add too much brush the pastry rim with water. Then lay the pastry lids over the pies, pressing the edges together to seal with your fingers.

Brush the tops with the egg white and sugar mix. Then make a small slit in the centre with the point of a knife. Put the tart tins on a baking tray and bake in the oven for 20-25 minutes untilgolden,turning the oven down a little or covering loosely with foil if they appear to be colouring too quickly.

Leave the pies to rest for about 15 minutes, then unmould onto plates. Dust with icing sugar and serve with a generous spoonful of thick cream or creme fralche.
